# Dakota Studios: What Does it Cost to Shoot Video for Your Firm?

## Article Information
- **Published:** 3/2/23
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/dakota-studios-what-does-it-cost-to-shoot-video-for-your-firm

## Content

Even after years on Zoom, we’ve all had moments where presenting or sharing on video has felt clunky. You’re likely already doing something you’re nervous about, with a “room” full of silent eyes on you — it can feel like a lot of pressure. But, whether you’re well-versed in video or new to it, there’s always room for improvement. At Dakota, we have a dedicated, in-house video team that creates world class video not just for our own team (though of course they do that, too!), but for our clients and non-profits, as well. Since the launch of Dakota Studios in early 2021, we’ve hammered out all the rough patches, and shot hours and hours of footage for ourselves and others. In that time, we’ve learned the true value of video production. Creating videos can: Increase brand awareness Help others learn about your company mission, vision, and goals Spread the word about a nonprofit Decrease the time your sales team needs to spend answering introductory questions about your firm And more In this article, we’re going to outline how much shooting videos and webinars in Dakota Studios costs. By the end of the article, you’ll have a clear understanding of how much your investment will be, and what you’ll come away with at the end of your shoot. Marketing videos About Take the stress out of pitching with professionally shot, easy to distribute marketing videos. These marketing videos will be shot in our world-class studio, where our investment team with fifteen years of experience will guide you through the questions due diligence analysts want answered. What’s included Prep time with the Dakota team Private studio time and access to our world-class video team Customizable video templates 10-15 fully-produced videos Compliance-reviewed Option to overlay videos with graphics and imagery Custom branding Cost Shooting a marketing video at Dakota Studios is $7,500. Company overview videos About Struggling to bring your company’s story to life? Short, easy to film company overview videos are a great way to share your story the way you want to tell it. Just provide the details and our team will take care of the rest. What’s included Prep time with the Dakota team Private studio time and access to our world-class studio team Customizable video templates A fully-produced, ready to use company overview video Compliance reviewed Option to overlay videos with graphics and imagery Custom branding Option for year updates ($4,500 per additional year) Cost Shooting a company overview video at Dakota Studios is $9,500. Webinars There are several options when it comes to partnering with Dakota for your webinar production needs: A pre-recorded webinar Webinar with marketing distribution A spotlight call A spotlight call with distribution A pre-recorded webinar Includes: Prep call Filming of webinar in Dakota Studio Custom branding Post production video edits Final video link to share with your network Cost: $5,000 Webinar with marketing distribution Includes: Email marketing to our network of over 25,000 qualified investors Webinar registration management Registration and attendance data shared post webinar Cost: $5,000 A Spotlight call Includes: Prep call Script creation with Dakota Filming of webinar in Dakota Studio Custom Branding Post production video edits Email marketing to our network of over 25,000 qualified investors Webinar registration management Registration and attendance data shared post webinar Cost: $10,000 A spotlight call with marketing distribution Includes: Full spotlight call 5 custom overview/marketing videos shot in the studio on the day of the Spotlight call Each video is 1-3 minutes and receives full post production edits and enhancements Prep call Cost: $15,000 Is creating video right for your firm? At the end of the day, the videos you create are only useful if they are being used by your sales team to share information about your firm with analysts. However, in our experience, this is not often the case. Typically video is being created and then left untouched, despite the firm making a significant investment in its production. We get it. You know you need to be shooting video and incorporating it into your strategy, and so, like many firms, you find a videographer and do just that. This often results in beautifully shot videos of your building, lobby, and team... without very much substance to work with. This is because — understandably — most videographers don’t know the questions investment allocators want answered, and you’re left with videos that are nicely made but of little use to your sales team. The team at Dakota Studios works hand in hand with our investment sales team to ensure you’re asking and answering the questions due diligence analysts want answered. So, the answer is yes, creating video is right for your firm, if you’re doing it in a way that will truly benefit your investment sales team. Even after years on Zoom, we’ve all had moments where presenting or sharing on video has felt clunky. You’re likely already doing something you’re nervous about, with a “room” full of silent eyes on you — it can feel like a lot of pressure. But, whether you’re well-versed in video or new to it, there’s always room for improvement. At Dakota, we have a dedicated, in-house video team that creates world class video not just for our own team (though of course they do that, too!), but for our clients and non-profits, as well. Since the launch of Dakota Studios in early 2021, we’ve hammered out all the rough patches, and shot hours and hours of footage for ourselves and others. In that time, we’ve learned the true value of video production. Creating videos can: Increase brand awareness Help others learn about your company mission, vision, and goals Spread the word about a nonprofit Decrease the time your sales team needs to spend answering introductory questions about your firm And more In this article, we’re going to outline how much shooting videos and webinars in Dakota Studios costs. By the end of the article, you’ll have a clear understanding of how much your investment will be, and what you’ll come away with at the end of your shoot. Marketing videos About Take the stress out of pitching with professionally shot, easy to distribute marketing videos. These marketing videos will be shot in our world-class studio, where our investment team with fifteen years of experience will guide you through the questions due diligence analysts want answered. What’s included Prep time with the Dakota team Private studio time and access to our world-class video team Customizable video templates 10-15 fully-produced videos Compliance-reviewed Option to overlay videos with graphics and imagery Custom branding Cost Shooting a marketing video at Dakota Studios is $7,500. Company overview videos About Struggling to bring your company’s story to life? Short, easy to film company overview videos are a great way to share your story the way you want to tell it. Just provide the details and our team will take care of the rest. What’s included Prep time with the Dakota team Private studio time and access to our world-class studio team Customizable video templates A fully-produced, ready to use company overview video Compliance reviewed Option to overlay videos with graphics and imagery Custom branding Option for year updates ($4,500 per additional year) Cost Shooting a company overview video at Dakota Studios is $9,500. Webinars There are several options when it comes to partnering with Dakota for your webinar production needs: A pre-recorded webinar Webinar with marketing distribution A spotlight call A spotlight call with distribution A pre-recorded webinar Includes: Prep call Filming of webinar in Dakota Studio Custom branding Post production video edits Final video link to share with your network Cost: $5,000 Webinar with marketing distribution Includes: Email marketing to our network of over 25,000 qualified investors Webinar registration management Registration and attendance data shared post webinar Cost: $5,000 A Spotlight call Includes: Prep call Script creation with Dakota Filming of webinar in Dakota Studio Custom Branding Post production video edits Email marketing to our network of over 25,000 qualified investors Webinar registration management Registration and attendance data shared post webinar Cost: $10,000 A spotlight call with marketing distribution Includes: Full spotlight call 5 custom overview/marketing videos shot in the studio on the day of the Spotlight call Each video is 1-3 minutes and receives full post production edits and enhancements Prep call Cost: $15,000 Is creating video right for your firm? At the end of the day, the videos you create are only useful if they are being used by your sales team to share information about your firm with analysts. However, in our experience, this is not often the case. Typically video is being created and then left untouched, despite the firm making a significant investment in its production. We get it. You know you need to be shooting video and incorporating it into your strategy, and so, like many firms, you find a videographer and do just that. This often results in beautifully shot videos of your building, lobby, and team... without very much substance to work with. This is because — understandably — most videographers don’t know the questions investment allocators want answered, and you’re left with videos that are nicely made but of little use to your sales team. The team at Dakota Studios works hand in hand with our investment sales team to ensure you’re asking and answering the questions due diligence analysts want answered. So, the answer is yes, creating video is right for your firm, if you’re doing it in a way that will truly benefit your investment sales team.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*