# New Fund Launches for the First Half of February

## Article Information
- **Published:** 2/16/24
- **Author:** Koncheng Moua
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/new-fund-launches-for-the-first-half-of-february

## Content

In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! Private Equity Keystone Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, Keystone Capital launched Keystone Capital Fund III which was filed on February 9, 2024. Keyston is a private equity firm based in Chicago, Illinois and is led by Kent Dauten and Erik Gernant. Keystone closed on Fund II in 2021 with $420 million of capital commitments. Keystone typically makes majority control investments in companies with EBITDA of $3 million to $15 million in engineering and technical services, professional and technology services, business and commercial services, and industrial technology products. Portfolio companies include Integra, a commercial HVAC market service provider, Scott Group Studio, a carpet manufacturer for high-end residential and commercial markets, and Tribute Baking Company. Finback Investment Partners Launches 2024 PE Fund According to the SEC Form D filing, Finback Investment Partners, a private equity firm based in Coral Gables, Florida, launched Finback Investment Partners 2024 Fund on January 31, 2024. Finback is led by led by Governor Jeb Bush, Jeb Bush Jr., George Huber, and Jack Oliver. Founded in 2017, Finback takes active minority interest in middle market and growth-stage companies. Equity investments typically range up to $60 million with a focus on companies that have a positive societal impact. Portfolio companies include Hub, Sunbelt Solomon, and Spectrio to name a few. Real Estate Ellington Management Group Launches CRE Debt Partners Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing, Ellington Management Group launched Ellington Commercial Real Estate Debt Partners Fund II and was filed on January 30, 2024. Ellington is an investment and advisory firm based in Connecticut with offices in New York, California, and London, and specializes in mortgage-backed securities, real estate, and fixed income markets. Michael Vranos founded Ellington in 1994 and still serves as CEO for the firm. Venture Capital RET Ventures Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing that was filed on February 5, 2024, RET Ventures, a VC firm based in Park City, Utah and led by John Helm and Christopher Yip, has launched RET Ventures Associates Fund III. Fund II closed in 2021 with $165 million raised, exceeding the $130 million target. RET usually focuses on the real estate tech industry and have a portfolio of 42 companies including Stake, a cashback rewards platform for renters, and Checkpoint ID, a Kasa, a short term rental platform. MaC Venture Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, MaC Venture Capital, a venture capital firm based in Los Angeles, California launched MaC Venture Capital Fund III on February 1, 2024. The seed-stage venture capital firm is led by Marlon Nichols and Adrian Fenty, and typically invests in technology startups. Portfolio companies include Seed, lendstreet, FaZe Clan, and more. For more information on these new strategies, start a free trial of Dakota Marketplace! In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! Private Equity Keystone Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, Keystone Capital launched Keystone Capital Fund III which was filed on February 9, 2024. Keyston is a private equity firm based in Chicago, Illinois and is led by Kent Dauten and Erik Gernant. Keystone closed on Fund II in 2021 with $420 million of capital commitments. Keystone typically makes majority control investments in companies with EBITDA of $3 million to $15 million in engineering and technical services, professional and technology services, business and commercial services, and industrial technology products. Portfolio companies include Integra, a commercial HVAC market service provider, Scott Group Studio, a carpet manufacturer for high-end residential and commercial markets, and Tribute Baking Company. Finback Investment Partners Launches 2024 PE Fund According to the SEC Form D filing, Finback Investment Partners, a private equity firm based in Coral Gables, Florida, launched Finback Investment Partners 2024 Fund on January 31, 2024. Finback is led by led by Governor Jeb Bush, Jeb Bush Jr., George Huber, and Jack Oliver. Founded in 2017, Finback takes active minority interest in middle market and growth-stage companies. Equity investments typically range up to $60 million with a focus on companies that have a positive societal impact. Portfolio companies include Hub, Sunbelt Solomon, and Spectrio to name a few. Real Estate Ellington Management Group Launches CRE Debt Partners Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing, Ellington Management Group launched Ellington Commercial Real Estate Debt Partners Fund II and was filed on January 30, 2024. Ellington is an investment and advisory firm based in Connecticut with offices in New York, California, and London, and specializes in mortgage-backed securities, real estate, and fixed income markets. Michael Vranos founded Ellington in 1994 and still serves as CEO for the firm. Venture Capital RET Ventures Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing that was filed on February 5, 2024, RET Ventures, a VC firm based in Park City, Utah and led by John Helm and Christopher Yip, has launched RET Ventures Associates Fund III. Fund II closed in 2021 with $165 million raised, exceeding the $130 million target. RET usually focuses on the real estate tech industry and have a portfolio of 42 companies including Stake, a cashback rewards platform for renters, and Checkpoint ID, a Kasa, a short term rental platform. MaC Venture Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, MaC Venture Capital, a venture capital firm based in Los Angeles, California launched MaC Venture Capital Fund III on February 1, 2024. The seed-stage venture capital firm is led by Marlon Nichols and Adrian Fenty, and typically invests in technology startups. Portfolio companies include Seed, lendstreet, FaZe Clan, and more. For more information on these new strategies, start a free trial of Dakota Marketplace!

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*