# New Fund Launches For the First Half of April

## Article Information
- **Published:** 4/19/24
- **Author:** Koncheng Moua
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/new-fund-launches-the-first-half-of-april

## Content

In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! PRIVATE EQUITY Coller Capital Launches Coller Secondaries Private Equity Opportunities Fund Coller Capital has recently launched Coller Secondaries Private Equity Opportunities Fund (C-SPEF). C-SPEF, now open for investment, is a tender offer fund designed for accredited high-net-worth investors. According to a press release, “C-SPEF seeks to deliver a powerful combination of attractive absolute and risk-adjusted returns, diversification, and the opportunity for more liquidity than traditional private equity funds. Available to both U.S. taxable and tax-exempt investors, the fund offers monthly subscriptions and quarterly redemptions, a lower minimum than traditional private market investments, and 1099 tax reporting. C-SPEF does not charge a performance fee and as a benefit to first movers, has waived its management fee for the first year.” Coller Capital is a specialist investor in the secondary private capital market providing private equity and credit secondaries funds to investors worldwide. Libremax Launches Tigermax Partners LP Tigermax Partners LP, a buyout fund managed by Libremax launched their newest vintage early in March. Libremax is a 10b asset management company specializing in structured credit, hedge funds, CLOs and liquid long only strategies. Greg Lippman, their CIO founded the firm over 18 years ago after an impressive career managing the ABS and CDO desk at Deutche bank. Inceptiv Management Launches Inceptiv Red 2 LP INCEPTIV Management has launched Inceptiv Red 2 LP, according to the Form D that was filed on March 20, 2024. INCEPTIV, based in Los Angeles and led by Hezy Shalev, provides flexible, specialty capital to fund managers and independent sponsors in private equity and real estate; and investors with atypical exposure to GP economics. Arbor Investments Launches Fund VI Arbor Investments has launched Arbor Investments VI, filed on April 8, 2024 according to Form D filings. Fund V closed in 2020 after raising $1.5 billion of outside capital commitments. Arbor focuses on acquiring middle-market food & beverage companies including manufacturers, marketers, and distributors. Previous deals include Artisanal Brewing Ventures, Carnivore Meat Company, and Oregon Freeze Dry to name a few. VENTURE CAPITAL Top Tier Capital Partners Launches Top Tier Capital XI, L.P. Top Tier Capital Partners has launched Top Tier Capital XI, L.P, according to the Form D that was filed on April 3, 2024. Based in San Francisco with offices in Boston and London, Top Tier Capital is an investment manager with families of funds focused on primary commitments to venture funds, LP and direct secondaries, and direct investments. It was announced earlier this year that the VC and private equity firm raised over $1 billion in new capital to invest with global venture funds and tech companies. The new capital includes Fund X, single investor funds, and separate accounts. HighVista Launched HighVista Venture Capital XIV HighVista Strategies has launched HighVista Venture Capital XIV, filed on April 9, 2024 according to Form D filings. HighVista is based in Boston, Massachusetts and manages $10 billion. The HighVista Venture strategy focuses on early-stage businesses with a focus on information technology, life sciences, and blockchain.Peter Moordian and Kirsten Morin lead the Venture team at HighVista. In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! PRIVATE EQUITY Coller Capital Launches Coller Secondaries Private Equity Opportunities Fund Coller Capital has recently launched Coller Secondaries Private Equity Opportunities Fund (C-SPEF). C-SPEF, now open for investment, is a tender offer fund designed for accredited high-net-worth investors. According to a press release, “C-SPEF seeks to deliver a powerful combination of attractive absolute and risk-adjusted returns, diversification, and the opportunity for more liquidity than traditional private equity funds. Available to both U.S. taxable and tax-exempt investors, the fund offers monthly subscriptions and quarterly redemptions, a lower minimum than traditional private market investments, and 1099 tax reporting. C-SPEF does not charge a performance fee and as a benefit to first movers, has waived its management fee for the first year.” Coller Capital is a specialist investor in the secondary private capital market providing private equity and credit secondaries funds to investors worldwide. Libremax Launches Tigermax Partners LP Tigermax Partners LP, a buyout fund managed by Libremax launched their newest vintage early in March. Libremax is a 10b asset management company specializing in structured credit, hedge funds, CLOs and liquid long only strategies. Greg Lippman, their CIO founded the firm over 18 years ago after an impressive career managing the ABS and CDO desk at Deutche bank. Inceptiv Management Launches Inceptiv Red 2 LP INCEPTIV Management has launched Inceptiv Red 2 LP, according to the Form D that was filed on March 20, 2024. INCEPTIV, based in Los Angeles and led by Hezy Shalev, provides flexible, specialty capital to fund managers and independent sponsors in private equity and real estate; and investors with atypical exposure to GP economics. Arbor Investments Launches Fund VI Arbor Investments has launched Arbor Investments VI, filed on April 8, 2024 according to Form D filings. Fund V closed in 2020 after raising $1.5 billion of outside capital commitments. Arbor focuses on acquiring middle-market food & beverage companies including manufacturers, marketers, and distributors. Previous deals include Artisanal Brewing Ventures, Carnivore Meat Company, and Oregon Freeze Dry to name a few. VENTURE CAPITAL Top Tier Capital Partners Launches Top Tier Capital XI, L.P. Top Tier Capital Partners has launched Top Tier Capital XI, L.P, according to the Form D that was filed on April 3, 2024. Based in San Francisco with offices in Boston and London, Top Tier Capital is an investment manager with families of funds focused on primary commitments to venture funds, LP and direct secondaries, and direct investments. It was announced earlier this year that the VC and private equity firm raised over $1 billion in new capital to invest with global venture funds and tech companies. The new capital includes Fund X, single investor funds, and separate accounts. HighVista Launched HighVista Venture Capital XIV HighVista Strategies has launched HighVista Venture Capital XIV, filed on April 9, 2024 according to Form D filings. HighVista is based in Boston, Massachusetts and manages $10 billion. The HighVista Venture strategy focuses on early-stage businesses with a focus on information technology, life sciences, and blockchain.Peter Moordian and Kirsten Morin lead the Venture team at HighVista.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*