# Top Institutional Investor Databases for 2024: What Do They Cost?

## Article Information
- **Published:** 12/23/23
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/list-of-the-top-institutional-investor-databases-2023-with-estimated-pricing

## Content

Salespeople are expensive, and any firm leader wants their salespeople to be productive. Having them perform extensive research on who to call on is counterproductive. Thus, it has been important to us to supply our Investment Sales team with highly accurate and qualified accounts and contacts to call on. Institutional and intermediary investor databases can provide a good foundation of contacts for sales professionals, depending on the database you are looking at. It is crucial to be very clear on what you want and to consider what is most useful to you in your career. As a fundraiser for the past 25 years, the only thing that matters, in my opinion, is qualified leads of investors that buy what you sell - both strategy (asset class) and structure (mutual fund, LP, ETF, separate account). Key questions to ask to make your database decision: What channel(s) do you cover? (Consultants, RIAs, Banks, BD, Direct Pensions, Sub-advisory, etc.) What is your product structure? (Mutual Funds, Separate Account, LP, ETF, CIT, etc.) In this article we will review a list of the top leading institutional investor databases and their approximate price. After reading this article, you’ll have an understanding of these nine databases and their area of focus to make a decision on which is best for you and your firm’s needs. These prices are an estimate as they change frequently, and most database companies will negotiate. The descriptions are from each company’s website. Money Market Directory (MMD) Money Market Directory coins themselves as a world-leading provider of financial information services. Their database offers insights, leading data, and technology solutions. With a subscription to this database, you’ll be able to pinpoint prospects, identify new sales opportunities, and build lasting relationships using market leading data. Estimated Cost: $5,000 - $15,000 Focus: Institutional Investors Nasdaq eVestment Nasdaq eVestment brings transparency and efficiency to the global institutional market to give managers, asset owners, and consultants the tools to make data-driven decisions, deploy their resources more productively, and ultimately realize better outcomes. They coin themselves as the source for institutional intelligence. Estimated Cost: $15,000 - $60,000 Focus: Institutional Investors PitchBook According to PitchBook, they are the premier resource for comprehensive data on the global capital markets and proprietary research and insights. Their database is designed to empower your best work, and help capital market professionals win what’s next. With a subscription to PitchBook’s database, you’ll have access to research and analysis of companies, deals, funds, investors and service providers across the entire private investment lifecycle. To explore more of what’s included in their Desktop subscription, you can explore their website. Estimated cost: ~$24,000, a free trial of the PitchBook desktop is available Focus: Private Equity, Venture Capital, M&A FinSearches FIN Searches provides crucial data intelligence to the institutional investment community. With 15 years in the business, they have helped asset managers find new business and create relationships with institutional investors. FIN Searches’ database offers customization to configuring your home dashboard, as well as access to accurate and updated information. For more information on specific product features, you can explore their website. Estimated cost: $7,000 - $10,000, FIN Searches offers a free trial for their database Focus: Pension Fund Searches, Institutional Investments Preqin Preqin says they are the home of alternatives, empowering the global alternatives community with essential data and insight. With a Preqin subscription, you’ll have access to their data, analytics solutions, and insights all letting you see into the industry. Estimated cost: $5,000 - $30,000, there are three tiers to a Preqin database subscription Focus: Alternatives Discovery Data Discovery Data coins themselves as the market leader in financial services industry data, insights, and analytics. With 20 years in the business, Discovery Data helps companies grow their business by providing detailed profiles on firms and professionals in the financial industry. To explore features of their subscription, browse their website. Estimated cost: $5,000 - $20,000+, there are four tiers to a Discovery Data Database subscription Focus: RIAs, Broker Dealers, Insurance IC Research Institute The IC Research Institute is an independent provider of market intelligence data services on institutional investment consultants. This platform is designed to add value by making hard-to-find information accessible, and transforming fragmented data into a complete picture in order to accelerate the sales management process. With a subscription to IC Research Institute, you’ll save time, money, and “nerves” to accelerate your business development, revenues, and profit. Estimated cost: $14,000 Focus: Institutional Consultants FINTRX From FINTRX’s website, FINTRX provides accurate and comprehensive private wealth intelligence - empowering you to book more meetings, increase efficiency & expand your network. With a subscription to FINTRX’s database, you will have access to industry leading financial firms and their research team to better access the complex and rapidly changing private wealth ecosystem. Estimated cost: $15,000 - $30,000, FINTRX offers a free trial of their database Focus: RIAs, Family Office Dakota Marketplace Dakota Marketplace is the only database built by fundraisers for fundraisers, and is the database our own Investment Sales team uses daily to help them raise over $36 billion since our founding in 2006. Dakota Marketplace is a complete database solution across all investment channels, institutional and intermediary, providing your investment sales team with complete and accurate data to help accelerate their fundraising efforts. With accounts and contacts spanning globally in the US and Canada, we are your one stop shop for fundraising. Whether you’re looking into Public Pension Funds, RIAs, Family Offices, Broker Dealers, Foundations and Endowments, Corporate Pension Funds, we have what you need for your strategy with the proper contact information. For more details on the features of our all encompassing institutional and intermediary database, please see our website. Cost: $15,500 and $1,000 for each additional user, Dakota Marketplace offers a free trial to interested buyers Focus: Institutional and Intermediary channels If you... Want access to alternative investments, Preqin caters for those types of managers. Want access to the RIA channel, FINTRX and Discovery Data may be of interest to you. Want access to Public Pension Fund searches, Fin Searches is the database for you. Want a consultant-dedicated database, IC Research has extensive information on Institutional Consultants. Are a Private Equity Fund Manager and you want to know data on both allocators and individually-owned companies, PitchBook is a good choice. Want a more institutional-focused database, Money Market Directory or Nasdaq eVestment are both options for you. Are interested in a database that is all encompassing for institutional and intermediary channels globally including the US and Canada, Dakota Marketplace is the database for you. Keeping data up-to-date is time-consuming, and it requires dedicated resources. Most firms rely on salespeople to do the updating, and that is a weak strategy at best. Investment salespeople need to be presented with accurate, up-to-date leads so they can focus on what matters most: setting up meetings to fundraise. Dakota Marketplace does exactly that. To start fundraising today, start your free trial of Dakota Marketplace. Salespeople are expensive, and any firm leader wants their salespeople to be productive. Having them perform extensive research on who to call on is counterproductive. Thus, it has been important to us to supply our Investment Sales team with highly accurate and qualified accounts and contacts to call on. Institutional and intermediary investor databases can provide a good foundation of contacts for sales professionals, depending on the database you are looking at. It is crucial to be very clear on what you want and to consider what is most useful to you in your career. As a fundraiser for the past 25 years, the only thing that matters, in my opinion, is qualified leads of investors that buy what you sell - both strategy (asset class) and structure (mutual fund, LP, ETF, separate account). Key questions to ask to make your database decision: What channel(s) do you cover? (Consultants, RIAs, Banks, BD, Direct Pensions, Sub-advisory, etc.) What is your product structure? (Mutual Funds, Separate Account, LP, ETF, CIT, etc.) In this article we will review a list of the top leading institutional investor databases and their approximate price. After reading this article, you’ll have an understanding of these nine databases and their area of focus to make a decision on which is best for you and your firm’s needs. These prices are an estimate as they change frequently, and most database companies will negotiate. The descriptions are from each company’s website. Money Market Directory (MMD) Money Market Directory coins themselves as a world-leading provider of financial information services. Their database offers insights, leading data, and technology solutions. With a subscription to this database, you’ll be able to pinpoint prospects, identify new sales opportunities, and build lasting relationships using market leading data. Estimated Cost: $5,000 - $15,000 Focus: Institutional Investors Nasdaq eVestment Nasdaq eVestment brings transparency and efficiency to the global institutional market to give managers, asset owners, and consultants the tools to make data-driven decisions, deploy their resources more productively, and ultimately realize better outcomes. They coin themselves as the source for institutional intelligence. Estimated Cost: $15,000 - $60,000 Focus: Institutional Investors PitchBook According to PitchBook, they are the premier resource for comprehensive data on the global capital markets and proprietary research and insights. Their database is designed to empower your best work, and help capital market professionals win what’s next. With a subscription to PitchBook’s database, you’ll have access to research and analysis of companies, deals, funds, investors and service providers across the entire private investment lifecycle. To explore more of what’s included in their Desktop subscription, you can explore their website. Estimated cost: ~$24,000, a free trial of the PitchBook desktop is available Focus: Private Equity, Venture Capital, M&A FinSearches FIN Searches provides crucial data intelligence to the institutional investment community. With 15 years in the business, they have helped asset managers find new business and create relationships with institutional investors. FIN Searches’ database offers customization to configuring your home dashboard, as well as access to accurate and updated information. For more information on specific product features, you can explore their website. Estimated cost: $7,000 - $10,000, FIN Searches offers a free trial for their database Focus: Pension Fund Searches, Institutional Investments Preqin Preqin says they are the home of alternatives, empowering the global alternatives community with essential data and insight. With a Preqin subscription, you’ll have access to their data, analytics solutions, and insights all letting you see into the industry. Estimated cost: $5,000 - $30,000, there are three tiers to a Preqin database subscription Focus: Alternatives Discovery Data Discovery Data coins themselves as the market leader in financial services industry data, insights, and analytics. With 20 years in the business, Discovery Data helps companies grow their business by providing detailed profiles on firms and professionals in the financial industry. To explore features of their subscription, browse their website. Estimated cost: $5,000 - $20,000+, there are four tiers to a Discovery Data Database subscription Focus: RIAs, Broker Dealers, Insurance IC Research Institute The IC Research Institute is an independent provider of market intelligence data services on institutional investment consultants. This platform is designed to add value by making hard-to-find information accessible, and transforming fragmented data into a complete picture in order to accelerate the sales management process. With a subscription to IC Research Institute, you’ll save time, money, and “nerves” to accelerate your business development, revenues, and profit. Estimated cost: $14,000 Focus: Institutional Consultants FINTRX From FINTRX’s website, FINTRX provides accurate and comprehensive private wealth intelligence - empowering you to book more meetings, increase efficiency & expand your network. With a subscription to FINTRX’s database, you will have access to industry leading financial firms and their research team to better access the complex and rapidly changing private wealth ecosystem. Estimated cost: $15,000 - $30,000, FINTRX offers a free trial of their database Focus: RIAs, Family Office Dakota Marketplace Dakota Marketplace is the only database built by fundraisers for fundraisers, and is the database our own Investment Sales team uses daily to help them raise over $36 billion since our founding in 2006. Dakota Marketplace is a complete database solution across all investment channels, institutional and intermediary, providing your investment sales team with complete and accurate data to help accelerate their fundraising efforts. With accounts and contacts spanning globally in the US and Canada, we are your one stop shop for fundraising. Whether you’re looking into Public Pension Funds, RIAs, Family Offices, Broker Dealers, Foundations and Endowments, Corporate Pension Funds, we have what you need for your strategy with the proper contact information. For more details on the features of our all encompassing institutional and intermediary database, please see our website. Cost: $15,500 and $1,000 for each additional user, Dakota Marketplace offers a free trial to interested buyers Focus: Institutional and Intermediary channels If you... Want access to alternative investments, Preqin caters for those types of managers. Want access to the RIA channel, FINTRX and Discovery Data may be of interest to you. Want access to Public Pension Fund searches, Fin Searches is the database for you. Want a consultant-dedicated database, IC Research has extensive information on Institutional Consultants. Are a Private Equity Fund Manager and you want to know data on both allocators and individually-owned companies, PitchBook is a good choice. Want a more institutional-focused database, Money Market Directory or Nasdaq eVestment are both options for you. Are interested in a database that is all encompassing for institutional and intermediary channels globally including the US and Canada, Dakota Marketplace is the database for you. Keeping data up-to-date is time-consuming, and it requires dedicated resources. Most firms rely on salespeople to do the updating, and that is a weak strategy at best. Investment salespeople need to be presented with accurate, up-to-date leads so they can focus on what matters most: setting up meetings to fundraise. Dakota Marketplace does exactly that. To start fundraising today, start your free trial of Dakota Marketplace.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*