# Top 10 RIA Firms in the Minneapolis Metro Area

## Article Information
- **Published:** 1/23/24
- **Author:** Morgan Holycross
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/top-ria-firms-minneapolis

## Content

RIAs are one of the most dynamic and fast growing channels for investment firms to sell their investment strategies to. The challenge has always been: “what RIAs invest in outside managers and are not investment managers themselves?” Through our database of RIAs, Dakota Marketplace, we have aimed to solve that problem by curating and vetting each RIA by hand and only showing those RIAs that are true prospects for an investment firm. This saves both the investment sales team member time, but also saves the “other” RIAs that don’t allocate to other managers from getting unnecessary emails and phone calls. Below are a few RIAs in Minneapolis that we thought you might like to know. For a more detailed list of RIAs in Minneapolis, click here to see for free. 1. Wealth Enhancement Group AUM: $50,000,000,000 2. Woodbury Financial Services Inc. AUM: $21,344,571,679 3. Fiduciary Counseling Inc AUM: $11,435,637,725 4. Standard Valuations Inc AUM: $8,000,000,000 5. Clifton Larson Allen Wealth Advisors AUM: $6,947,612,102 6. Orgel Wealth Management AUM: $6,606,699,000 7. Focus Financial Network Inc AUM: $5,084,683,954 8. MMA Retirement Services - Upper Midwest Region AUM: $4,300,000,000 9. Gradient Investments, LLC AUM: $4,188,166,705 10. Northrock Partners AUM: $4,188,037,335 For a more detailed list of all RIAs in Minneapolis click here to see for free. RIAs are one of the most dynamic and fast growing channels for investment firms to sell their investment strategies to. The challenge has always been: “what RIAs invest in outside managers and are not investment managers themselves?” Through our database of RIAs, Dakota Marketplace, we have aimed to solve that problem by curating and vetting each RIA by hand and only showing those RIAs that are true prospects for an investment firm. This saves both the investment sales team member time, but also saves the “other” RIAs that don’t allocate to other managers from getting unnecessary emails and phone calls. Below are a few RIAs in Minneapolis that we thought you might like to know. For a more detailed list of RIAs in Minneapolis, click here to see for free. 1. Wealth Enhancement Group AUM: $50,000,000,000 2. Woodbury Financial Services Inc. AUM: $21,344,571,679 3. Fiduciary Counseling Inc AUM: $11,435,637,725 4. Standard Valuations Inc AUM: $8,000,000,000 5. Clifton Larson Allen Wealth Advisors AUM: $6,947,612,102 6. Orgel Wealth Management AUM: $6,606,699,000 7. Focus Financial Network Inc AUM: $5,084,683,954 8. MMA Retirement Services - Upper Midwest Region AUM: $4,300,000,000 9. Gradient Investments, LLC AUM: $4,188,166,705 10. Northrock Partners AUM: $4,188,037,335 For a more detailed list of all RIAs in Minneapolis click here to see for free.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*