# What is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce? The Benefits of an All-in-One Data Solution

## Article Information
- **Published:** 2/26/21
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/what-is-the-dakota-salesforce-app-the-benefits-of-an-all-in-one-data-solution

## Content

If you’ve ever looked at your CRM or your database of accounts and contacts and felt overwhelmed by the amount of outdated or stale data within it, you’re not alone. Data gets outdated quickly in every industry. And in an industry where the turnover rate continues to increase, once you fall behind, it can feel impossible to catch back up. We’ve all been there, and what’s more, we know that the cost of letting your data get stale is high. It can cost your team not just money, but valuable time that could be better spent setting meetings with allocators. At Dakota, our investment sales team has raised over $35B since 2006, and we know that good data can make or break a sales team. We’ve even put together a list of three ways to keep it as clean as possible. But for the purpose of this article, we want to dive deeper into the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce an all-in-one solution for connecting your Salesforce instance to our institutional investor database, Dakota Marketplace. Marketplace itself was created for salespeople by salespeople, using the very same data we use ourselves every day. We’ve streamlined our own sales process, and now want to share that data with you. In this post, we’ll break down the ins and outs of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce, including the benefits of integrating it with Dakota Marketplace. By the end of this article, you’ll be able to see for yourself the power that comes with an all-in-one data solution. What is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce? Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce is a solution that can be installed through the Salesforce AppExchange, allowing you to integrate your Salesforce accounts and contacts with the accounts and contacts within Dakota Marketplace. Our data is updated daily by a team of data professionals, investment salespeople, as well as automated tools and technology, so there is never a risk of it getting stale. It works in one of two ways: You can select specific accounts and contacts to create and link, and those will be updated by our team. You can integrate all of the Marketplace accounts and contacts into your Salesforce instance. This means that your data is clean and your lead source is constantly being updated with new accounts and contacts. What is Dakota Marketplace? Marketplace is a regularly updated, curated database of qualified investment allocators across the Intermediary and Institutional channels. Marketplace is designed for investment sales teams, and the data within it includes RIAs, MFOs, Family Offices, Bank Trusts, Broker Dealers, Institutional Consultants, OCIOs, Foundations, Endowments, Corporate and Public Pension Funds, Insurance Companies, Fund of Funds, as well as other professional investors. Marketplace data is updated regularly by a team of both investment sales professionals and data analysts. The benefits of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce leverages the power of Dakota Marketplace and merges it directly with your CRM, solving the problem of disconnected and outdated data. When you connect Dakota Marketplace with your Salesforce instance using Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce, you can select the accounts and contacts you want linked to Dakota Marketplace, and they will be updated in real time by our team. Here are some of the benefits of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce: A regularly updated lead source. Your sales team has access to fresh leads daily via new accounts and contacts being added directly into your Salesforce instance from Dakota Marketplace. Increased efficiency across the sales team. Automatic updating of any and all Marketplace contacts, including email addresses, titles, phone numbers and asset class coverage areas. This means no more manual entry and updating on your end. Access to Marketplace with the click of a button. Even if you choose not to integrate your Salesforce Instance with Marketplace directly, Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce gives you the ability to link directly back to Marketplace from your Salesforce instance, giving you access to over 150 custom fields and Marketplace’s full feature set. Our data becomes your data. If you choose to end the subscription at any point, the data received from the Marketplace integration remains with you. A simple, three-step installation process. Bringing on a new system can be time consuming in itself, but you’ll be able to get up and running with Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce in just a few clicks, without involving your tech team. Who is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce right for? Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce is best for investment sales professionals who want guaranteed consistency between their institutional investment database and their CRM. If you and your team have been juggling between Salesforce and your institutional investor database, this is the best way to save time and bring everything together under one solution. Why it’s worth the investment: consistency With Dakota Marketplace, you get access to over 3,400 accounts and 12,000 contacts. However, the problem with having access to a large number of data like that is the fear that it will become outdated. With the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce integration, you’ll have all of those accounts and contacts imported and updated directly into your CRM, eliminating that fear. For every account or contact field that you link to Marketplace, we’re updating it in the background. You’re truly outsourcing and paying for our team to update your Salesforce on a real time basis. Whether it’s updating an AUM or an address to adding a contact or title, we make that update for you. No more wondering if your data is synced and up to date, and importing spreadsheets into Salesforce. Is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce right for you? Of course we like to think that our solution is right for everyone in the industry, since it has always been our mission to be a resource to other investment sales professionals, but we realize this isn’t always the case. But, if your team is trying to become more efficient, and stop wasting time cleaning up or manually adding data to your CRM, Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce might be the perfect solution. If you’re already a Marketplace member and want to make your day to day smoother by using an all in one data solution, we think it would be a great fit, too. How to bring a data solution on at your firm We know one thing to be true: clean data means less wasted time, more meetings, and more business closed for your team. We know that there is a lot of trust lost between investment sales professionals and databases. However, you can start by asking questions about data and best practices internally. If you find that there are holes to be filled and time to be saved, we’ll be here to provide further insight, as well as a demo of the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce App, to see if it’s a fit for your team. If you’ve ever looked at your CRM or your database of accounts and contacts and felt overwhelmed by the amount of outdated or stale data within it, you’re not alone. Data gets outdated quickly in every industry. And in an industry where the turnover rate continues to increase, once you fall behind, it can feel impossible to catch back up. We’ve all been there, and what’s more, we know that the cost of letting your data get stale is high. It can cost your team not just money, but valuable time that could be better spent setting meetings with allocators. At Dakota, our investment sales team has raised over $35B since 2006, and we know that good data can make or break a sales team. We’ve even put together a list of three ways to keep it as clean as possible. But for the purpose of this article, we want to dive deeper into the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce an all-in-one solution for connecting your Salesforce instance to our institutional investor database, Dakota Marketplace. Marketplace itself was created for salespeople by salespeople, using the very same data we use ourselves every day. We’ve streamlined our own sales process, and now want to share that data with you. In this post, we’ll break down the ins and outs of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce, including the benefits of integrating it with Dakota Marketplace. By the end of this article, you’ll be able to see for yourself the power that comes with an all-in-one data solution. What is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce? Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce is a solution that can be installed through the Salesforce AppExchange, allowing you to integrate your Salesforce accounts and contacts with the accounts and contacts within Dakota Marketplace. Our data is updated daily by a team of data professionals, investment salespeople, as well as automated tools and technology, so there is never a risk of it getting stale. It works in one of two ways: You can select specific accounts and contacts to create and link, and those will be updated by our team. You can integrate all of the Marketplace accounts and contacts into your Salesforce instance. This means that your data is clean and your lead source is constantly being updated with new accounts and contacts. What is Dakota Marketplace? Marketplace is a regularly updated, curated database of qualified investment allocators across the Intermediary and Institutional channels. Marketplace is designed for investment sales teams, and the data within it includes RIAs, MFOs, Family Offices, Bank Trusts, Broker Dealers, Institutional Consultants, OCIOs, Foundations, Endowments, Corporate and Public Pension Funds, Insurance Companies, Fund of Funds, as well as other professional investors. Marketplace data is updated regularly by a team of both investment sales professionals and data analysts. The benefits of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce leverages the power of Dakota Marketplace and merges it directly with your CRM, solving the problem of disconnected and outdated data. When you connect Dakota Marketplace with your Salesforce instance using Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce, you can select the accounts and contacts you want linked to Dakota Marketplace, and they will be updated in real time by our team. Here are some of the benefits of Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce: A regularly updated lead source. Your sales team has access to fresh leads daily via new accounts and contacts being added directly into your Salesforce instance from Dakota Marketplace. Increased efficiency across the sales team. Automatic updating of any and all Marketplace contacts, including email addresses, titles, phone numbers and asset class coverage areas. This means no more manual entry and updating on your end. Access to Marketplace with the click of a button. Even if you choose not to integrate your Salesforce Instance with Marketplace directly, Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce gives you the ability to link directly back to Marketplace from your Salesforce instance, giving you access to over 150 custom fields and Marketplace’s full feature set. Our data becomes your data. If you choose to end the subscription at any point, the data received from the Marketplace integration remains with you. A simple, three-step installation process. Bringing on a new system can be time consuming in itself, but you’ll be able to get up and running with Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce in just a few clicks, without involving your tech team. Who is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce right for? Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce is best for investment sales professionals who want guaranteed consistency between their institutional investment database and their CRM. If you and your team have been juggling between Salesforce and your institutional investor database, this is the best way to save time and bring everything together under one solution. Why it’s worth the investment: consistency With Dakota Marketplace, you get access to over 3,400 accounts and 12,000 contacts. However, the problem with having access to a large number of data like that is the fear that it will become outdated. With the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce integration, you’ll have all of those accounts and contacts imported and updated directly into your CRM, eliminating that fear. For every account or contact field that you link to Marketplace, we’re updating it in the background. You’re truly outsourcing and paying for our team to update your Salesforce on a real time basis. Whether it’s updating an AUM or an address to adding a contact or title, we make that update for you. No more wondering if your data is synced and up to date, and importing spreadsheets into Salesforce. Is Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce right for you? Of course we like to think that our solution is right for everyone in the industry, since it has always been our mission to be a resource to other investment sales professionals, but we realize this isn’t always the case. But, if your team is trying to become more efficient, and stop wasting time cleaning up or manually adding data to your CRM, Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce might be the perfect solution. If you’re already a Marketplace member and want to make your day to day smoother by using an all in one data solution, we think it would be a great fit, too. How to bring a data solution on at your firm We know one thing to be true: clean data means less wasted time, more meetings, and more business closed for your team. We know that there is a lot of trust lost between investment sales professionals and databases. However, you can start by asking questions about data and best practices internally. If you find that there are holes to be filled and time to be saved, we’ll be here to provide further insight, as well as a demo of the Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce App, to see if it’s a fit for your team.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*