# Creating a Repeatable, Successful Sales Process: Principle 1 - Focus on What Matters Most

## Article Information
- **Published:** 2/6/24
- **Author:** Morgan Holycross
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/creating-a-repeatable-successful-sales-process-principle-1-focus-on-what-matters-most

## Content

In the dynamic world of sales, success hinges on more than just ambition and persistence; it requires creating a repeatable sales process. We understand the intricacies of this challenging field - marked by emotional ups and downs, extended sales cycles, and frequent rejections. At Dakota, we’ve created this repeatable process for our investment sales team. Our four core principles have led us to success, and provided 20 years of results. We review these principles monthly in our Rainmaker sessions with Gui Costin. This is a class for any investment sales professional as it lays out the blueprint for a winning sales strategy. No matter the experience level - wanting to touch up, wanting to learn tips and tricks, or new to fundraising - Rainmaker is a sales training program with proven results. In this article are diving into principle one to creating a repeatable sales process: focus on what matters most. By the end of this, you’ll have a better understanding of the two things you’ll need to do in order to achieve this and how they'll help you reach your fundraising goals. To learn more about our four principles to sales, check out an upcoming Rainmaker Live! session with Gui Costin. Principle 1: focus on what matters most Sales is an arena filled with challenges - long cycles, frequent rejections, and intense competition. To navigate this landscape successfully, it's essential to first embrace this challenge. Next, you need to have a clear and focused strategy - which is why our first principle is to focus on what matters most. This principle is about hyper-focusing on the things you can control, and chipping away at them one at a time as you work to meet your goals. So, how do you know what your goals are? Let’s get into it. Set expectations The first thing you’re going to want to do is create alignment between you and upper management, or your boss. This is to create complete transparency in order to know your goals. Sit down and outline expectations so you have something to work towards. Every month you should review these with your boss to ensure they know what you're working on. There's nothing worse than when your boss is out of the loop on what you're working on. Create a sales plan After setting expectations, this will help you make your sales plan. The purpose of your unique sales plan is for you to come in everyday and have an outline for what you're going to do. You should never be questioning what it is you're doing. Your sales plan should align with your goals and the unique demands of your market. While your plan is more than just a set of goals, it's your comprehensive approach that includes understanding your total addressable market (TAM) and planning your sales activities. Knowing your audience and their needs helps in creating your sales plan, ensuring that your efforts are focused and impactful. The plan should cover: Total Addressable Market (TAM): Knowing your audience is crucial. Who are your ideal customers? What are their needs and how does your product meet them? This clarity enables you to focus your efforts where they matter the most. Value Proposition: What sets your product apart? Your sales plan should articulate the unique benefits your product offers, tailored to your target market's specific challenges and needs. Sales Activities and Milestones: Define the key activities that will drive your sales forward. This includes prospecting methods, networking strategies, and follow-up processes. Equally important is setting realistic milestones to track progress and maintain momentum. To round things out, focusing on what matters most is about creating a strategic sales plan and maintaining discipline in your approach. This principle lays the groundwork for a successful career in sales. From outlining this plan, you’ll have a clear understanding of who your TAM will be, which leads into principle number two of the Rainmaker Sales plan – know who to call on. To watch one of our Rainmaker Live! sessions, see in Dakota Marketplace. In the dynamic world of sales, success hinges on more than just ambition and persistence; it requires creating a repeatable sales process. We understand the intricacies of this challenging field - marked by emotional ups and downs, extended sales cycles, and frequent rejections. At Dakota, we’ve created this repeatable process for our investment sales team. Our four core principles have led us to success, and provided 20 years of results. We review these principles monthly in our Rainmaker sessions with Gui Costin. This is a class for any investment sales professional as it lays out the blueprint for a winning sales strategy. No matter the experience level - wanting to touch up, wanting to learn tips and tricks, or new to fundraising - Rainmaker is a sales training program with proven results. In this article are diving into principle one to creating a repeatable sales process: focus on what matters most. By the end of this, you’ll have a better understanding of the two things you’ll need to do in order to achieve this and how they'll help you reach your fundraising goals. To learn more about our four principles to sales, check out an upcoming Rainmaker Live! session with Gui Costin. Principle 1: focus on what matters most Sales is an arena filled with challenges - long cycles, frequent rejections, and intense competition. To navigate this landscape successfully, it's essential to first embrace this challenge. Next, you need to have a clear and focused strategy - which is why our first principle is to focus on what matters most. This principle is about hyper-focusing on the things you can control, and chipping away at them one at a time as you work to meet your goals. So, how do you know what your goals are? Let’s get into it. Set expectations The first thing you’re going to want to do is create alignment between you and upper management, or your boss. This is to create complete transparency in order to know your goals. Sit down and outline expectations so you have something to work towards. Every month you should review these with your boss to ensure they know what you're working on. There's nothing worse than when your boss is out of the loop on what you're working on. Create a sales plan After setting expectations, this will help you make your sales plan. The purpose of your unique sales plan is for you to come in everyday and have an outline for what you're going to do. You should never be questioning what it is you're doing. Your sales plan should align with your goals and the unique demands of your market. While your plan is more than just a set of goals, it's your comprehensive approach that includes understanding your total addressable market (TAM) and planning your sales activities. Knowing your audience and their needs helps in creating your sales plan, ensuring that your efforts are focused and impactful. The plan should cover: Total Addressable Market (TAM): Knowing your audience is crucial. Who are your ideal customers? What are their needs and how does your product meet them? This clarity enables you to focus your efforts where they matter the most. Value Proposition: What sets your product apart? Your sales plan should articulate the unique benefits your product offers, tailored to your target market's specific challenges and needs. Sales Activities and Milestones: Define the key activities that will drive your sales forward. This includes prospecting methods, networking strategies, and follow-up processes. Equally important is setting realistic milestones to track progress and maintain momentum. To round things out, focusing on what matters most is about creating a strategic sales plan and maintaining discipline in your approach. This principle lays the groundwork for a successful career in sales. From outlining this plan, you’ll have a clear understanding of who your TAM will be, which leads into principle number two of the Rainmaker Sales plan – know who to call on. To watch one of our Rainmaker Live! sessions, see in Dakota Marketplace.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*