# Top 5 Alternatives Conferences

## Article Information
- **Published:** 10/19/22
- **Author:** Morgan Holycross
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/top-alternatives-conferences

## Content

As an investment sales professional, you must attend conferences to meet with various advisors, consultants, and allocators to increase your touch points for raising capital. It can be a pain to research and keep track of the conferences that the many investment firms have. However, we both know it’s a non negotiable. At Dakota, our sales teams are constantly traveling, city scheduling, and making the most of every trip, whether it’s for a meeting or a conference. Then, what was once a shared calendar of upcoming events became a new feature in Dakota Marketplace called Dakota Conferences. This new feature allows not just our own sales team but all of our customers to see, at a glance, which conferences are happening and when, and what asset class they’re focused on. In this article, we’re outlining five upcoming conferences that focus on alternatives. By the end of the article, you’ll have a clear picture of upcoming events, when and where they’re being held, and if they’re a fit for your firm. 1. Catalyst Cap Intro: Alternative Investing Funds (New York City) About the conference: The Catalyst Cap Intro Alternative Investing Funds 2023 is a pan-alternative asset classes and strategies event. The event is investor driven and transactional in scope, hosting investment managers and institutional grade investors that are introduced to each other with a view to become investment partners. This Catalyst Cap Intro Event focuses on the Alternative Investing Funds space, with renewed ideas, anticipation and momentum for 2023. Strategies covered include: L/S equity & Long-only, Credit & Fixed income, Merger Arb, Event driven, Quant & Options, Currencies, Macro & CTAs, International/Global markets, Distressed & Deep-value, Commodities & Energy, and more. Managers typically offer their products through investment funds, but also SMAs or advisory features. The event is live, in-person, where managers give presentations during lunch, followed by private meetings. The event concludes with a networking reception. Participants are given access to a dedicated online Catalyst Event Portal, where the agenda, meetings schedule with contact info, participants list and other info are available. The event is exclusive with only around 30 participants in a controlled environment, with a 1:2 manager to investor ratio. The introductions are arranged prior to the events, in an investor driven fashion based on the merits of each investment manager and the requests made by the investors. There are no service providers, only managers and investors. Investors are pre-screened and pre-qualified prior to the events, by completing a COIN (Catalyst Online Investor Network) questionnaire. Investors constitute predominantly single and multi-family offices, allocator intermediaries, and end-investors, located in the US but also internationally. Metro: New York City Date: 3/20/2023 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 2. CAASA Annual Conference 2022 About the conference: The CAASA Annual Conference brings together speakers and participants from private and public pension plans, sovereign wealth funds, single and multi-family offices, consulting firms, investment dealers, Canadian and global investment management houses, and affiliated service providers. Panels and break-out sessions will focus on key issues facing investors and managers in Canada and elsewhere including structuring, legal & tax issues, IT and operational areas, and investments – including: hedge funds, CTAs, private equity, private lending, real estate, infrastructure, and crypto-assets/blockchain-related investments. Metro: Montreal Date: 11/1/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 3. High Alpha Funds (Miami) About the conference: The Catalyst Cap Intro: High Alpha Funds – Miami, Spring 2023 is an alternative strategies event focusing on managers showing high absolute returns. The event is investor driven and transactional in scope, hosting investment managers and institutional grade investors in a dynamic region which is seeing a lot of growth. High Alpha Funds are characterized by employing innovative investment strategies by some of the smartest investment teams using best-in-class operational standards. Strategies covered include: CTA/Commodities, Quants & Options, Crypto & Blockchain, HFT, Real estate and RE debt, Emerging Markets, L/S Equity, Credit & Distressed and more. For investors the challenge continues to be a multi-narrative market, with lingering Covid effects, immense inflation pressures, and the Ukraine war dislocating markets. A global slowdown or even recession may well also occur. All this means opportunities for savvy investment managers. The event is live, in-person, where managers give presentations during lunch, followed by private meetings. The event concludes with a Miami-styled networking reception. Participants are given access to a dedicated online Catalyst Event Portal, with easy access to the agenda, meetings schedule and participants list with profile data. The event is exclusive with only around 30 participants, with a 1:2 manager to investor ratio. The introductions are arranged prior the events, in an investor driven fashion based on the merits of each investment manager and the requests made by the investors. There are no service providers, only managers and investors. Investors are pre-screened and pre-qualified prior the events, by completing a COIN (Catalyst Online Investor Network) questionnaire. Investors constitute predominantly single and multi-family offices, allocator intermediaries, and end-investors, located in the US but also internationally. Metro: Miami Date: 5/8/2023 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 4. Gaining the Edge Cap Intro (New York City) About the conference: Gaining the Edge - Cap Intro New York 2022 will take place in person on November 2 & 3 at the New York Marriott Marquis. It will also include 3 weeks of virtual meetings from October 31 through November 18, which will allow registrants from Europe, the Middle East and Asia to participate. The event will be dedicated to 1-1 capital introduction meetings between managers, allocators and a limited number of service providers. Metro: New York City Date: 11/2/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: Hybrid 5. 2022 ADISA Annual Conference & Trade Show About the conference: Designed for all industry professionals who sponsor, analyze, market, distribute or recommend alternative investments, ADISA's Annual Conference & Trade Show will feature key industry experts, educational panels and topical presentations. Metro: Las Vegas Date: 10/10/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person As an investment sales professional, you must attend conferences to meet with various advisors, consultants, and allocators to increase your touch points for raising capital. It can be a pain to research and keep track of the conferences that the many investment firms have. However, we both know it’s a non negotiable. At Dakota, our sales teams are constantly traveling, city scheduling, and making the most of every trip, whether it’s for a meeting or a conference. Then, what was once a shared calendar of upcoming events became a new feature in Dakota Marketplace called Dakota Conferences. This new feature allows not just our own sales team but all of our customers to see, at a glance, which conferences are happening and when, and what asset class they’re focused on. In this article, we’re outlining five upcoming conferences that focus on alternatives. By the end of the article, you’ll have a clear picture of upcoming events, when and where they’re being held, and if they’re a fit for your firm. 1. Catalyst Cap Intro: Alternative Investing Funds (New York City) About the conference: The Catalyst Cap Intro Alternative Investing Funds 2023 is a pan-alternative asset classes and strategies event. The event is investor driven and transactional in scope, hosting investment managers and institutional grade investors that are introduced to each other with a view to become investment partners. This Catalyst Cap Intro Event focuses on the Alternative Investing Funds space, with renewed ideas, anticipation and momentum for 2023. Strategies covered include: L/S equity & Long-only, Credit & Fixed income, Merger Arb, Event driven, Quant & Options, Currencies, Macro & CTAs, International/Global markets, Distressed & Deep-value, Commodities & Energy, and more. Managers typically offer their products through investment funds, but also SMAs or advisory features. The event is live, in-person, where managers give presentations during lunch, followed by private meetings. The event concludes with a networking reception. Participants are given access to a dedicated online Catalyst Event Portal, where the agenda, meetings schedule with contact info, participants list and other info are available. The event is exclusive with only around 30 participants in a controlled environment, with a 1:2 manager to investor ratio. The introductions are arranged prior to the events, in an investor driven fashion based on the merits of each investment manager and the requests made by the investors. There are no service providers, only managers and investors. Investors are pre-screened and pre-qualified prior to the events, by completing a COIN (Catalyst Online Investor Network) questionnaire. Investors constitute predominantly single and multi-family offices, allocator intermediaries, and end-investors, located in the US but also internationally. Metro: New York City Date: 3/20/2023 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 2. CAASA Annual Conference 2022 About the conference: The CAASA Annual Conference brings together speakers and participants from private and public pension plans, sovereign wealth funds, single and multi-family offices, consulting firms, investment dealers, Canadian and global investment management houses, and affiliated service providers. Panels and break-out sessions will focus on key issues facing investors and managers in Canada and elsewhere including structuring, legal & tax issues, IT and operational areas, and investments – including: hedge funds, CTAs, private equity, private lending, real estate, infrastructure, and crypto-assets/blockchain-related investments. Metro: Montreal Date: 11/1/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 3. High Alpha Funds (Miami) About the conference: The Catalyst Cap Intro: High Alpha Funds – Miami, Spring 2023 is an alternative strategies event focusing on managers showing high absolute returns. The event is investor driven and transactional in scope, hosting investment managers and institutional grade investors in a dynamic region which is seeing a lot of growth. High Alpha Funds are characterized by employing innovative investment strategies by some of the smartest investment teams using best-in-class operational standards. Strategies covered include: CTA/Commodities, Quants & Options, Crypto & Blockchain, HFT, Real estate and RE debt, Emerging Markets, L/S Equity, Credit & Distressed and more. For investors the challenge continues to be a multi-narrative market, with lingering Covid effects, immense inflation pressures, and the Ukraine war dislocating markets. A global slowdown or even recession may well also occur. All this means opportunities for savvy investment managers. The event is live, in-person, where managers give presentations during lunch, followed by private meetings. The event concludes with a Miami-styled networking reception. Participants are given access to a dedicated online Catalyst Event Portal, with easy access to the agenda, meetings schedule and participants list with profile data. The event is exclusive with only around 30 participants, with a 1:2 manager to investor ratio. The introductions are arranged prior the events, in an investor driven fashion based on the merits of each investment manager and the requests made by the investors. There are no service providers, only managers and investors. Investors are pre-screened and pre-qualified prior the events, by completing a COIN (Catalyst Online Investor Network) questionnaire. Investors constitute predominantly single and multi-family offices, allocator intermediaries, and end-investors, located in the US but also internationally. Metro: Miami Date: 5/8/2023 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person 4. Gaining the Edge Cap Intro (New York City) About the conference: Gaining the Edge - Cap Intro New York 2022 will take place in person on November 2 & 3 at the New York Marriott Marquis. It will also include 3 weeks of virtual meetings from October 31 through November 18, which will allow registrants from Europe, the Middle East and Asia to participate. The event will be dedicated to 1-1 capital introduction meetings between managers, allocators and a limited number of service providers. Metro: New York City Date: 11/2/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: Hybrid 5. 2022 ADISA Annual Conference & Trade Show About the conference: Designed for all industry professionals who sponsor, analyze, market, distribute or recommend alternative investments, ADISA's Annual Conference & Trade Show will feature key industry experts, educational panels and topical presentations. Metro: Las Vegas Date: 10/10/2022 Speaker type: Allocators Format: In person

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*