# The 6 Best Salesforce Consultants for Investment Firms

## Article Information
- **Published:** 4/14/22
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/best-salesforce-consultants-for-investment-firms

## Content

Investing in a CRM is not a small undertaking. Ensuring that your Salesforce instance is set up in a way that sets your team up for success is critical from start to finish, and that’s before you start using the platform to log, track, and follow up with clients and prospects. At Dakota, we’ve been using and recommending Salesforce since 2006, and it has helped us raise over $40 billion in that time. Since then, we’ve launched Fuse for Salesforce to help make using Salesforce easier for our colleagues. We’ve used our fair share of consultants along the way, and have since mastered what it means to drive and encourage CRM adoption and use at an investment firm. In this article, we’re highlighting some of the best Salesforce consultants for investment firms specifically. We’ve broken each consultant down into three categories: An overview Specialty and focus areas Certifications We’re including ourselves on this list as well, given our experience and product focus, but don’t worry — we’re not here to tell you we are the only solution when it comes to getting your firm setup with Salesforce. Instead, by the end of the article, you’ll have a better understanding of your options, the specialties of each consultant, and which one might be the best fit for you. Digital Mass About In Digital Mass’ own words, their team of Minnesota Salesforce consultants brings modern Salesforce development to complex industries, in any cloud. Their consultants will help you and your team discover the most critical and productive areas to focus on in your Salesforce implementation. Their experts have over 20 years of software experience to contribute to solutions. Specialty and Focus Areas Sales Cloud consultants help your team sell smarter through centralizing customer information, tracking interactions, and automating time-consuming tasks. Certifications Sales Cloud Service Cloud Experience Cloud Marketing Cloud Pardot Silver Softworks About Silver Softworks focuses mainly on small and medium sized businesses in addition to non-profits. According to Silver Softworks themselves, they have a 100% successful delivery record with over 300 successful Salesforce implementations for more than 200 Salesforce customers to date. Specialty and Focus Areas Silver Softworks helps lead wealth management, banking, insurance, and lending companies go from concept to cloud with Salesforce. You’ll be able to maintain client loyalty through being able to deliver personalized insights using full customer visibility into different areas. Certifications Pardot CPQ Implementation Sales Cloud Service Cloud Community Cloud Field Service Lighting Marketing Cloud Sikich About Sikich has created its own Salesforce templates for Private Equity and Investment Banking. In their own words, their comprehensive skill sets, obtained over decades of experience as entrepreneurs, business owners and industry innovators, allows them to provide insights and transformative services to help strengthen every dimension of your business. Sikich is ranked in the country’s top 30 largest Certified Public Accounting firms and is among the 1% of all enterprise resource planning solution partners in the world. Specialty and Focus Areas Sikich is primarily good for private equity firms, investment banking firms, and business travelers. For private equity firms, it’s important to manage your fundraising and deal pipeline through various views and reports. Investment banking firms require tracking and insight to keep your organization running successfully. Salesforce has reports and dashboards available and refreshed daily that provide users with timely information. As for business travelers, Sikich sets up Salesforce Maps so companies in the Salesforce system can be color coded when viewing the map. You’ll be able to see what types of companies are in the area while you’re traveling to set up additional meetings while away. Certifications None specifically listed Twistellar About Twistellar has deep business expertise with their leaders contributing 15-years of experience of managing real sector companies. Their team is composed of 70 Salesforce and business experts and ensures highest quality standards. Specialty and Focus Areas Sales Cloud Marketing Cloud Service Cloud Lightning Community Cloud Salesforce Mobile App Cloud IOT Cloud Certifications Certifications were not specifically listed. FinServ Consulting About In FinServ’s own words, they provide a cost-effective outsourced support solution so you are able to keep taking advantage of the 3 major Salesforce releases each year. They work with your Sales, Marketing, and IR teams to make sure every part of your fund is covered. Their team is composed of management consultants that are experts in the industry and bring 15 years of experience. Specialty and Focus Areas FinServ focuses on business consulting, systems integration, custom development, and preconfigured solutions. Certifications Pardot Specialist Sales Cloud Consultant Salesforce Certified Administrator Omi About Omi combines user experience, technology, sales, marketing and analytics disciplines. In their own words, their team provides a full range of Salesforce consulting services, administration and other services, including architecture consulting, onboarding, and customization. With Omi, you’ll have access to 250+ successful salesforce projects, 20+ years of SAAS experience, ultimate transparency, and a customer-first approach. Specialty and Focus Areas Omi is strong in extensive experience with over 20 years of an accumulated knowledge base. They strive to be your partner of choice, and to help your company overcome any business challenges. Omi is familiar with every team from small businesses to Fortune 500 enterprises. Certifications Sales Cloud Marketing Cloud Service Cloud Which is right for your investment firm? While every firm is different, here are some considerations to keep in mind as your evaluate your options. If you... Need a lot of integrations and custom development, FinServ Consulting might be the best fit for you. Are using Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud, and other Salesforce options, Twistellar would be a good fit for your team. Are looking for a Salesforce setup specific to Private Equity firms, Sikitch is the one for you. Need help keeping your data clean and setting up best practices for maintaining sales contact data, Dakota is the partner you're looking for. To find out more about our Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce product, we'd love to setup a call to discuss how we might work together. Investing in a CRM is not a small undertaking. Ensuring that your Salesforce instance is set up in a way that sets your team up for success is critical from start to finish, and that’s before you start using the platform to log, track, and follow up with clients and prospects. At Dakota, we’ve been using and recommending Salesforce since 2006, and it has helped us raise over $40 billion in that time. Since then, we’ve launched Fuse for Salesforce to help make using Salesforce easier for our colleagues. We’ve used our fair share of consultants along the way, and have since mastered what it means to drive and encourage CRM adoption and use at an investment firm. In this article, we’re highlighting some of the best Salesforce consultants for investment firms specifically. We’ve broken each consultant down into three categories: An overview Specialty and focus areas Certifications We’re including ourselves on this list as well, given our experience and product focus, but don’t worry — we’re not here to tell you we are the only solution when it comes to getting your firm setup with Salesforce. Instead, by the end of the article, you’ll have a better understanding of your options, the specialties of each consultant, and which one might be the best fit for you. Digital Mass About In Digital Mass’ own words, their team of Minnesota Salesforce consultants brings modern Salesforce development to complex industries, in any cloud. Their consultants will help you and your team discover the most critical and productive areas to focus on in your Salesforce implementation. Their experts have over 20 years of software experience to contribute to solutions. Specialty and Focus Areas Sales Cloud consultants help your team sell smarter through centralizing customer information, tracking interactions, and automating time-consuming tasks. Certifications Sales Cloud Service Cloud Experience Cloud Marketing Cloud Pardot Silver Softworks About Silver Softworks focuses mainly on small and medium sized businesses in addition to non-profits. According to Silver Softworks themselves, they have a 100% successful delivery record with over 300 successful Salesforce implementations for more than 200 Salesforce customers to date. Specialty and Focus Areas Silver Softworks helps lead wealth management, banking, insurance, and lending companies go from concept to cloud with Salesforce. You’ll be able to maintain client loyalty through being able to deliver personalized insights using full customer visibility into different areas. Certifications Pardot CPQ Implementation Sales Cloud Service Cloud Community Cloud Field Service Lighting Marketing Cloud Sikich About Sikich has created its own Salesforce templates for Private Equity and Investment Banking. In their own words, their comprehensive skill sets, obtained over decades of experience as entrepreneurs, business owners and industry innovators, allows them to provide insights and transformative services to help strengthen every dimension of your business. Sikich is ranked in the country’s top 30 largest Certified Public Accounting firms and is among the 1% of all enterprise resource planning solution partners in the world. Specialty and Focus Areas Sikich is primarily good for private equity firms, investment banking firms, and business travelers. For private equity firms, it’s important to manage your fundraising and deal pipeline through various views and reports. Investment banking firms require tracking and insight to keep your organization running successfully. Salesforce has reports and dashboards available and refreshed daily that provide users with timely information. As for business travelers, Sikich sets up Salesforce Maps so companies in the Salesforce system can be color coded when viewing the map. You’ll be able to see what types of companies are in the area while you’re traveling to set up additional meetings while away. Certifications None specifically listed Twistellar About Twistellar has deep business expertise with their leaders contributing 15-years of experience of managing real sector companies. Their team is composed of 70 Salesforce and business experts and ensures highest quality standards. Specialty and Focus Areas Sales Cloud Marketing Cloud Service Cloud Lightning Community Cloud Salesforce Mobile App Cloud IOT Cloud Certifications Certifications were not specifically listed. FinServ Consulting About In FinServ’s own words, they provide a cost-effective outsourced support solution so you are able to keep taking advantage of the 3 major Salesforce releases each year. They work with your Sales, Marketing, and IR teams to make sure every part of your fund is covered. Their team is composed of management consultants that are experts in the industry and bring 15 years of experience. Specialty and Focus Areas FinServ focuses on business consulting, systems integration, custom development, and preconfigured solutions. Certifications Pardot Specialist Sales Cloud Consultant Salesforce Certified Administrator Omi About Omi combines user experience, technology, sales, marketing and analytics disciplines. In their own words, their team provides a full range of Salesforce consulting services, administration and other services, including architecture consulting, onboarding, and customization. With Omi, you’ll have access to 250+ successful salesforce projects, 20+ years of SAAS experience, ultimate transparency, and a customer-first approach. Specialty and Focus Areas Omi is strong in extensive experience with over 20 years of an accumulated knowledge base. They strive to be your partner of choice, and to help your company overcome any business challenges. Omi is familiar with every team from small businesses to Fortune 500 enterprises. Certifications Sales Cloud Marketing Cloud Service Cloud Which is right for your investment firm? While every firm is different, here are some considerations to keep in mind as your evaluate your options. If you... Need a lot of integrations and custom development, FinServ Consulting might be the best fit for you. Are using Sales Cloud, Marketing Cloud, and other Salesforce options, Twistellar would be a good fit for your team. Are looking for a Salesforce setup specific to Private Equity firms, Sikitch is the one for you. Need help keeping your data clean and setting up best practices for maintaining sales contact data, Dakota is the partner you're looking for. To find out more about our Dakota Marketplace for Salesforce product, we'd love to setup a call to discuss how we might work together.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*