# The Top 6 Hedge Fund of Funds

## Article Information
- **Published:** 9/1/22
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/the-top-hedge-fund-of-funds

## Content

One of the biggest challenges faced by alternative investment sales professionals within the fund of fund channel is knowing the underlying fund’s area of focus, and who to call on. As fund of funds differentiate themselves based on their skill of identifying, evaluating, and monitoring managers, they often have a large number of specialized analysts with an often global footprint. Fund of funds are often able to invest early, move quicker, and allocate larger amounts than many other allocators and should be a key area of focus for every alternative strategy across its lifecycle. At Dakota, we’ve been raising capital within the fund of funds channel since 2006, and have raised over $30 billion dollars over the last fourteen years. In that time we’ve also established Dakota Marketplace, an institutional investor database of accounts and contacts that houses all of this information. To help you narrow down the size of the channel, we’ve put together a list of the six largest fund of fund platforms that focus on hedge fund strategies. By the end of this article, you will have a better idea of the channel, as well as who might be the right people for you and your team to call on. 1. The Blackstone Group AUM: $915B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 2. Credit Suisse Alternative Fund Solutions AUM: $462B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 3.Blackrock Alternative Investors (BAI) AUM: $330B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 4.Man FRM AUM: $151B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Hedge Fund 5.GCM Grosvenor AUM: $65B Metro: Chicago, Illinois Focus: Diversified 6.UBS (Hedge Funds Solutions Group & Multi-Manager Team) AUM: $42B Metro: Stamford, Connecticut Focus: Diversified One of the biggest challenges faced by alternative investment sales professionals within the fund of fund channel is knowing the underlying fund’s area of focus, and who to call on. As fund of funds differentiate themselves based on their skill of identifying, evaluating, and monitoring managers, they often have a large number of specialized analysts with an often global footprint. Fund of funds are often able to invest early, move quicker, and allocate larger amounts than many other allocators and should be a key area of focus for every alternative strategy across its lifecycle. At Dakota, we’ve been raising capital within the fund of funds channel since 2006, and have raised over $30 billion dollars over the last fourteen years. In that time we’ve also established Dakota Marketplace, an institutional investor database of accounts and contacts that houses all of this information. To help you narrow down the size of the channel, we’ve put together a list of the six largest fund of fund platforms that focus on hedge fund strategies. By the end of this article, you will have a better idea of the channel, as well as who might be the right people for you and your team to call on. 1. The Blackstone Group AUM: $915B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 2. Credit Suisse Alternative Fund Solutions AUM: $462B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 3.Blackrock Alternative Investors (BAI) AUM: $330B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Diversified 4.Man FRM AUM: $151B Metro: New York, New York Focus: Hedge Fund 5.GCM Grosvenor AUM: $65B Metro: Chicago, Illinois Focus: Diversified 6.UBS (Hedge Funds Solutions Group & Multi-Manager Team) AUM: $42B Metro: Stamford, Connecticut Focus: Diversified

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*