# Top 10 RIA Firms in the Charlotte Metro Area

## Article Information
- **Published:** 1/12/22
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/top-rias-charlotte

## Content

If you're in investment sales, you likely already know that one of the biggest problems of selling to the RIA (Registered Investment Adviser) marketplace is the sheer size of it. The RIA market across the United States consists of over 36,000 firms, which means that while there are more than enough to choose from when looking for new clients, narrowing down the list to only those that allocate to outside managers is going to be key. Here at Dakota, we’ve raised over $6 billion from over 350 RIAs, and that has been possible because we qualify and curate our list to only RIAs that allocate to outside managers. In an effort to help narrow down the sheer size of the market, we’ve put together a list of the top 10 RIAs in each major metro area across the country. To determine our list, we looked for three things: An AUM above $200 million A dedicated analyst team An RIA that actively allocates capital to outside investment management firms We have qualified 18 RIAs with AUMs ranging from $8B to $188M in Charlotte that meet our criteria. Below are the top 10 RIAs in Charlotte from that list. However, this is by no means a “best of” list, as there are so many high quality RIAs in Charlotte and around the country. We just wanted to give you a place to start. 1. Global Endowment Management AUM: $8,340,300,060 From Global Endowment Management themselves, they are passionate investors committed to serving their clients. For more than two decades, their people have stewarded the financial assets of national and international endowments and foundations. 2. Horizon Investments AUM: $3,209,443,098 According to Horizon Investments, goals-based investing is about connecting investment strategies to a client’s financial objectives. They empower advisors to make that connection by custom-tailoring strategies for the three stages of an investment journey: Gain, Protect and Spend. 3. Parsec Financial Management AUM: $2,442,313,196 From Parsec Financial Management's website, they're a fee-only registered investment advisor (RIA) with $3.95 billion in assets under management as of Sept. 30, 2021. Parsec provides investment management, financial planning, tax planning, trust services and business retirement services to 1,925 families and businesses in six offices across North Carolina. 4. Bragg Financial Advisors AUM: $2,272,123,381 According to Bragg Financial Advisors, Frank Bragg founded the firm over 50 years ago when he moved to Charlotte. While the firm has grown and evolved over time, we remain true to our core principles of providing expert advice with the highest level of personal service and care. 5. Colony Family Offices AUM: $2,100,000,000 From Colony Family Offices themselves, they're an independent, multi-family office providing fully integrated wealth planning, investment management and fiduciary services to individuals and families of wealth. 6. Boys Arnold Wealth Management AUM: $1,307,805,416 In Boys Arnold Wealth Management's own words, their firm is led by a senior management team that has worked together for over 25 years. They know that every member brings something unique to the table, and they draw upon that collective experience and diverse knowledge to offer their clients financial management solutions that stand the test of time. 7. Baltimore Family Office AUM: $1,293,946,842 From Baltimore Family Office themselves, their firm was founded by a few like-minded families to manage their wealth and their financial lives. As time passed, other families joined, becoming part of the cultural fabric that makes their firm different. Because they were founded by families, they think like families and understand the challenges that can come with a life of wealth. 8. Novare Capital Management AUM: $1,224,687,540 From Novare Capital Management's website, with over twenty years of client-focused experience and dedication, they utilize tailored strategies to address the financial needs of successful individuals, families, business owners, foundations and trusts. They develop and manage your portfolio with unbiased advice and an investment philosophy striving to provide consistent, tax-efficient, long-term growth. 9. New Republic Partners AUM: $1,200,000,000 In New Republic Partners' words, they provide clients with access to next-level investment solutions, customized lending and wealth management. Their seasoned professionals bring a deep knowledge of markets and client needs as well as powerful insights into the dynamics of rapidly evolving capital markets. 10. WestEnd Advisors AUM: $812,841,152 From WestEnd Advisors themselves, a Victory Capital Investment Franchise, they're an institutional asset management firm and a registered investment advisor. Their active, high-conviction strategies are rooted in intensive macroeconomic research and deep wisdom about the forces that drive domestic and global market sectors. If you're in investment sales, you likely already know that one of the biggest problems of selling to the RIA (Registered Investment Adviser) marketplace is the sheer size of it. The RIA market across the United States consists of over 36,000 firms, which means that while there are more than enough to choose from when looking for new clients, narrowing down the list to only those that allocate to outside managers is going to be key. Here at Dakota, we’ve raised over $6 billion from over 350 RIAs, and that has been possible because we qualify and curate our list to only RIAs that allocate to outside managers. In an effort to help narrow down the sheer size of the market, we’ve put together a list of the top 10 RIAs in each major metro area across the country. To determine our list, we looked for three things: An AUM above $200 million A dedicated analyst team An RIA that actively allocates capital to outside investment management firms We have qualified 18 RIAs with AUMs ranging from $8B to $188M in Charlotte that meet our criteria. Below are the top 10 RIAs in Charlotte from that list. However, this is by no means a “best of” list, as there are so many high quality RIAs in Charlotte and around the country. We just wanted to give you a place to start. 1. Global Endowment Management AUM: $8,340,300,060 From Global Endowment Management themselves, they are passionate investors committed to serving their clients. For more than two decades, their people have stewarded the financial assets of national and international endowments and foundations. 2. Horizon Investments AUM: $3,209,443,098 According to Horizon Investments, goals-based investing is about connecting investment strategies to a client’s financial objectives. They empower advisors to make that connection by custom-tailoring strategies for the three stages of an investment journey: Gain, Protect and Spend. 3. Parsec Financial Management AUM: $2,442,313,196 From Parsec Financial Management's website, they're a fee-only registered investment advisor (RIA) with $3.95 billion in assets under management as of Sept. 30, 2021. Parsec provides investment management, financial planning, tax planning, trust services and business retirement services to 1,925 families and businesses in six offices across North Carolina. 4. Bragg Financial Advisors AUM: $2,272,123,381 According to Bragg Financial Advisors, Frank Bragg founded the firm over 50 years ago when he moved to Charlotte. While the firm has grown and evolved over time, we remain true to our core principles of providing expert advice with the highest level of personal service and care. 5. Colony Family Offices AUM: $2,100,000,000 From Colony Family Offices themselves, they're an independent, multi-family office providing fully integrated wealth planning, investment management and fiduciary services to individuals and families of wealth. 6. Boys Arnold Wealth Management AUM: $1,307,805,416 In Boys Arnold Wealth Management's own words, their firm is led by a senior management team that has worked together for over 25 years. They know that every member brings something unique to the table, and they draw upon that collective experience and diverse knowledge to offer their clients financial management solutions that stand the test of time. 7. Baltimore Family Office AUM: $1,293,946,842 From Baltimore Family Office themselves, their firm was founded by a few like-minded families to manage their wealth and their financial lives. As time passed, other families joined, becoming part of the cultural fabric that makes their firm different. Because they were founded by families, they think like families and understand the challenges that can come with a life of wealth. 8. Novare Capital Management AUM: $1,224,687,540 From Novare Capital Management's website, with over twenty years of client-focused experience and dedication, they utilize tailored strategies to address the financial needs of successful individuals, families, business owners, foundations and trusts. They develop and manage your portfolio with unbiased advice and an investment philosophy striving to provide consistent, tax-efficient, long-term growth. 9. New Republic Partners AUM: $1,200,000,000 In New Republic Partners' words, they provide clients with access to next-level investment solutions, customized lending and wealth management. Their seasoned professionals bring a deep knowledge of markets and client needs as well as powerful insights into the dynamics of rapidly evolving capital markets. 10. WestEnd Advisors AUM: $812,841,152 From WestEnd Advisors themselves, a Victory Capital Investment Franchise, they're an institutional asset management firm and a registered investment advisor. Their active, high-conviction strategies are rooted in intensive macroeconomic research and deep wisdom about the forces that drive domestic and global market sectors.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*