# Top RIAs Firms in the Charlotte Metro Area

## Article Information
- **Published:** 7/24/24
- **Author:** Morgan Holycross
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/top-rias-in-charlotte

## Content

The RIA Channel is one of the most dynamic and fast growing channels for investment firms to sell their investment strategies to. The challenge has always been: “what RIAs invest in outside managers and are not investment managers themselves?” Through our Dakota Marketplace RIA database, we have aimed to solve that problem by curating and vetting each RIA by hand and only showing those RIAs that are true prospects for an investment firm. This saves both the investment sales team member time, but also saves the “other” RIAs that don’t allocate to other managers from getting unnecessary emails and phone calls. Below are a few RIAs in Charlotte that we thought you might like to know. For a more detailed list of RIAs in Charlotte, click here to see for free. 1. Compass Financial Partners, a Marsh McLennan Agency LLC Company AUM: $18,700,000,000 2. Independent Advisor Alliance AUM: $11,800,000,000 3. Global Endowment Management AUM: $10,580,525,716 4. Horizon Investments AUM: $3,816,815,479 5. Salem Investment Counselors Inc. AUM: $3,614,716,454 6. Bragg Financial Advisors AUM: $3,423,863,250 7. Colony Family Offices AUM: $2,600,638,955 8. WEG - Charlotte AUM: $2,476,825,260 9. Biltmore Family Office AUM: $2,322,649,734 10. New Republic Partners AUM: $2,000,000,000 For a more detailed list of all RIAs in Charlotte click here to see for free. The RIA Channel is one of the most dynamic and fast growing channels for investment firms to sell their investment strategies to. The challenge has always been: “what RIAs invest in outside managers and are not investment managers themselves?” Through our Dakota Marketplace RIA database, we have aimed to solve that problem by curating and vetting each RIA by hand and only showing those RIAs that are true prospects for an investment firm. This saves both the investment sales team member time, but also saves the “other” RIAs that don’t allocate to other managers from getting unnecessary emails and phone calls. Below are a few RIAs in Charlotte that we thought you might like to know. For a more detailed list of RIAs in Charlotte, click here to see for free. 1. Compass Financial Partners, a Marsh McLennan Agency LLC Company AUM: $18,700,000,000 2. Independent Advisor Alliance AUM: $11,800,000,000 3. Global Endowment Management AUM: $10,580,525,716 4. Horizon Investments AUM: $3,816,815,479 5. Salem Investment Counselors Inc. AUM: $3,614,716,454 6. Bragg Financial Advisors AUM: $3,423,863,250 7. Colony Family Offices AUM: $2,600,638,955 8. WEG - Charlotte AUM: $2,476,825,260 9. Biltmore Family Office AUM: $2,322,649,734 10. New Republic Partners AUM: $2,000,000,000 For a more detailed list of all RIAs in Charlotte click here to see for free.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*