# The Top 7 Private Equity Fund of Funds

## Article Information
- **Published:** 9/6/22
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/the-top-private-equity-fund-of-funds

## Content

One of the biggest challenges faced by alternative investment sales professionals within the fund of fund channel is knowing the underlying fund’s area of focus, and who to call on. As fund of funds differentiate themselves based on their skill of identifying, evaluating, and monitoring managers, they often have a large number of specialized analysts with an often global footprint. Fund of funds are often able to invest early, move quicker, and allocate larger amounts than many other allocators and should be a key area of focus for every alternative strategy across its lifecycle. At Dakota, we’ve been raising capital within the fund of funds channel since 2006, and have raised over $30 billion dollars over the last fourteen years. In that time we’ve also established Dakota Marketplace, an institutional investor database of accounts and contacts that houses all of this information. To help you narrow down the size of the channel, we’ve put together a list of the seven largest fund of fund platforms that focus on private equity strategies. By the end of this article, you will have a better idea of the channel, as well as who might be the right people for you and your team to call on. 1. HarbourVest AUM: $98B Metro: Boston, Massachusetts 2. Pathway Capital Management AUM: $90B Metro: Los Angeles, California 3. Pantheon AUM: $84.6B Metro: San Francisco, California 4. AlpInvest AUM: $55B Metro: New York, New York 5. Partners Group AUM: $127B Metro: New York, New York 6. Portfolio Advisors AUM: $38 B Metro: Darien, Connecticut 7. Horsley Bridge Partners LLC AUM: $28B Metro: San Francisco, California One of the biggest challenges faced by alternative investment sales professionals within the fund of fund channel is knowing the underlying fund’s area of focus, and who to call on. As fund of funds differentiate themselves based on their skill of identifying, evaluating, and monitoring managers, they often have a large number of specialized analysts with an often global footprint. Fund of funds are often able to invest early, move quicker, and allocate larger amounts than many other allocators and should be a key area of focus for every alternative strategy across its lifecycle. At Dakota, we’ve been raising capital within the fund of funds channel since 2006, and have raised over $30 billion dollars over the last fourteen years. In that time we’ve also established Dakota Marketplace, an institutional investor database of accounts and contacts that houses all of this information. To help you narrow down the size of the channel, we’ve put together a list of the seven largest fund of fund platforms that focus on private equity strategies. By the end of this article, you will have a better idea of the channel, as well as who might be the right people for you and your team to call on. 1. HarbourVest AUM: $98B Metro: Boston, Massachusetts 2. Pathway Capital Management AUM: $90B Metro: Los Angeles, California 3. Pantheon AUM: $84.6B Metro: San Francisco, California 4. AlpInvest AUM: $55B Metro: New York, New York 5. Partners Group AUM: $127B Metro: New York, New York 6. Portfolio Advisors AUM: $38 B Metro: Darien, Connecticut 7. Horsley Bridge Partners LLC AUM: $28B Metro: San Francisco, California

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*