# 3 Things To Expect From Your Dakota Marketplace Membership

## Article Information
- **Published:** 11/2/23
- **Author:** Morgan Holycross
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/what-to-expect-from-your-dakota-marketplace-membership

## Content

While it might be true that with most software platforms, the relationship begins and ends when you sign your contract. With Dakota Marketplace, signing your contract and becoming a member is just the beginning of your partnership. At Dakota, we make customer support our priority, and have done so since Marketplace's inception in 2019. When you become a Dakota Marketplace member, you are starting a partnership that is highly personalized and tailored to your specific needs. From the moment you sign your contract, you are assigned a dedicated Customer Success Manager (CSM) who is committed to ensuring your team gets the most out of the Marketplace platform. In this article, we will outline what you can expect from our Customer Success team when you become a Marketplace member. By the end of the article, you'll have a complete understanding of how our team works to support you from onboarding to the day to day and beyond. 1. A Comprehensive Onboarding Immediate onboarding: Upon signing your contract, one of our Customer Success Managers will immediately reach out to set up onboarding sessions for all of the Marketplace users at your firm. They are there from the start, and will continue to aid throughout your entire membership. Additionally, any time you add an additional user to your team, we will set up a training session to get your teammate up and running in Marketplace as soon as possible. Interactive Walkthrough: To get the ball rolling, your Customer Success Manager will get to know your firm and teammates to better understand how to help your team leverage Dakota Marketplace. This includes getting to know your target market and what you’re specifically looking to get out of this partnership. Refreshers and support: 30 days from the onboarding, your Customer Success Manager will reach out again to ensure you’re finding everything you need, and understanding the features of our database. Additionally, there are three, six, and nine month check-ins throughout your membership. Finally, with every year that you renew your Marketplace membership, we will set up a quick "refresher" onboarding meeting to ensure that you’re starting the new year off strong and getting the most from the platform. 2. Unmatched Customer Support Continuous check-ins: As we said above, our Customer Success team will set up check-ins 30 days into your membership, and again after three, six, and nine months. We want to make sure you are getting the most out of the platform, so we do our best to check in frequently, and welcome you to reach out with any questions, too. Daily office hours: Our team hosts office hours for Dakota Marketplace Monday-Friday from 1pm-2pm EST. Our team will be online and available to answer any questions, walk through any topics or functions, and help troubleshoot problems you may be facing. 24/7 email and phone support: Finally, our Customer Success team is available by email and cell phone all hours of the day. We have an average response time of four minutes, and we're always here to work with our members. Most customers reach out for specific lists, or curated notes from our Dakota Live! Call, Emerging Manager Growth Show, and Rainmaker Live! Shows. Live chat functionality: If you don't have time for office hours or training sessions, you can choose to use our live chat functionality directly within Marketplace, so you don’t have to leave the platform if you run into any questions. Our team will be alerted and we’ll get back to you with an answer or solution in a matter of minutes. 3. Personalized services Off-site training: If you have a large sales team looking to utilize Dakota Marketplace, our Customer Success team offers the option to do large training sessions. In these, we review the ins and outs of Marketplace during a time that works best so we can best serve the needs of your team. On-site training: Our Customer Success team offers the option to do training sessions in person. In these, we review the ins and outs of Marketplace during a time that works best so we can best serve the needs of your team. Marketplace Masterclasses: With a Dakota Marketplace membership, you and your team will have access to our quarterly Marketplace Masterclass. This is held by one of our Senior Customer Success Managers where they delve into the new features of Marketplace and duals as a working session, too. Custom Marketplace configurations: Our platform is highly customizable and able to be configured in ways to best serve your needs. Set up a call with our team to walk through how best to set up your custom design. Whether this is filtering certain asset classes, metro areas, or creating curated lists we are here to help! Refresher on-boardings: Each year that you renew we will set up a quick refresher onboarding to make sure you start off the new year knowing how to best continue to utilize the platform. Custom training sessions: We offer a variety of training sessions covering topics such as report building, list building and general feature refreshers. These calls can be set up around your schedule within a day or two of requesting. We will say it time and time again, a partnership with Dakota is not a business deal, it’s a personalized relationship from the moment you sign your contract. You’ll have our entire Customer Success team ready, and eager to help your team leverage fundraising. While it might be true that with most software platforms, the relationship begins and ends when you sign your contract. With Dakota Marketplace, signing your contract and becoming a member is just the beginning of your partnership. At Dakota, we make customer support our priority, and have done so since Marketplace's inception in 2019. When you become a Dakota Marketplace member, you are starting a partnership that is highly personalized and tailored to your specific needs. From the moment you sign your contract, you are assigned a dedicated Customer Success Manager (CSM) who is committed to ensuring your team gets the most out of the Marketplace platform. In this article, we will outline what you can expect from our Customer Success team when you become a Marketplace member. By the end of the article, you'll have a complete understanding of how our team works to support you from onboarding to the day to day and beyond. 1. A Comprehensive Onboarding Immediate onboarding: Upon signing your contract, one of our Customer Success Managers will immediately reach out to set up onboarding sessions for all of the Marketplace users at your firm. They are there from the start, and will continue to aid throughout your entire membership. Additionally, any time you add an additional user to your team, we will set up a training session to get your teammate up and running in Marketplace as soon as possible. Interactive Walkthrough: To get the ball rolling, your Customer Success Manager will get to know your firm and teammates to better understand how to help your team leverage Dakota Marketplace. This includes getting to know your target market and what you’re specifically looking to get out of this partnership. Refreshers and support: 30 days from the onboarding, your Customer Success Manager will reach out again to ensure you’re finding everything you need, and understanding the features of our database. Additionally, there are three, six, and nine month check-ins throughout your membership. Finally, with every year that you renew your Marketplace membership, we will set up a quick "refresher" onboarding meeting to ensure that you’re starting the new year off strong and getting the most from the platform. 2. Unmatched Customer Support Continuous check-ins: As we said above, our Customer Success team will set up check-ins 30 days into your membership, and again after three, six, and nine months. We want to make sure you are getting the most out of the platform, so we do our best to check in frequently, and welcome you to reach out with any questions, too. Daily office hours: Our team hosts office hours for Dakota Marketplace Monday-Friday from 1pm-2pm EST. Our team will be online and available to answer any questions, walk through any topics or functions, and help troubleshoot problems you may be facing. 24/7 email and phone support: Finally, our Customer Success team is available by email and cell phone all hours of the day. We have an average response time of four minutes, and we're always here to work with our members. Most customers reach out for specific lists, or curated notes from our Dakota Live! Call, Emerging Manager Growth Show, and Rainmaker Live! Shows. Live chat functionality: If you don't have time for office hours or training sessions, you can choose to use our live chat functionality directly within Marketplace, so you don’t have to leave the platform if you run into any questions. Our team will be alerted and we’ll get back to you with an answer or solution in a matter of minutes. 3. Personalized services Off-site training: If you have a large sales team looking to utilize Dakota Marketplace, our Customer Success team offers the option to do large training sessions. In these, we review the ins and outs of Marketplace during a time that works best so we can best serve the needs of your team. On-site training: Our Customer Success team offers the option to do training sessions in person. In these, we review the ins and outs of Marketplace during a time that works best so we can best serve the needs of your team. Marketplace Masterclasses: With a Dakota Marketplace membership, you and your team will have access to our quarterly Marketplace Masterclass. This is held by one of our Senior Customer Success Managers where they delve into the new features of Marketplace and duals as a working session, too. Custom Marketplace configurations: Our platform is highly customizable and able to be configured in ways to best serve your needs. Set up a call with our team to walk through how best to set up your custom design. Whether this is filtering certain asset classes, metro areas, or creating curated lists we are here to help! Refresher on-boardings: Each year that you renew we will set up a quick refresher onboarding to make sure you start off the new year knowing how to best continue to utilize the platform. Custom training sessions: We offer a variety of training sessions covering topics such as report building, list building and general feature refreshers. These calls can be set up around your schedule within a day or two of requesting. We will say it time and time again, a partnership with Dakota is not a business deal, it’s a personalized relationship from the moment you sign your contract. You’ll have our entire Customer Success team ready, and eager to help your team leverage fundraising.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*