# 6 Leading RIAs in the Pittsburgh Metro Area

## Article Information
- **Published:** 3/29/21
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/top-rias-pittsburgh

## Content

One of the biggest problems when selling to the RIA channel is the size of the market — it can be overwhelming trying to penetrate a channel this size. The RIA marketplace across the United States consists of over 36,000 firms, which means that while there are plenty to choose from when looking for new clients, shrinking the list down to only those that allocate to outside managers is key. Here at Dakota, we’ve raised over $6 billion from over 350 RIAs, and we qualify and curate our list to only include RIAs that allocate to outside managers. Each week on our Dakota Live! Call, we explore a major metro area, and the key pools of capital that can be found there. In an effort to help narrow down the sheer size of the RIA market, we’ve put together a list of some of the top RIAs in Pittsburgh, the city we highlighted on a recent call. In this article, we’ll break down six of the leading RIAs in Pittsburgh. However, this is by no means a “best of” list, as there are so many high quality RIAs in Pittsburgh and around the country. We just wanted to give you a place to start. By the end of this article, you’ll be ready to start making calls and setting meetings with RIAs in Pittsburgh. Greycourt ($5B AUM) HBKS Wealth Advisors ($3.4B AUM). Fort Pitt Capital Group ($4.7B AUM) JFS Wealth Advisors ($2.2B AUM) Xpyria Investment Advisors ($800M AUM) Rootstock Wealth Advisors ($361M AUM) What to do next Now that you have an idea of the RIA market in Pittsburgh, you’re ready to put it into practice and start setting meetings. One of the biggest problems when selling to the RIA channel is the size of the market — it can be overwhelming trying to penetrate a channel this size. The RIA marketplace across the United States consists of over 36,000 firms, which means that while there are plenty to choose from when looking for new clients, shrinking the list down to only those that allocate to outside managers is key. Here at Dakota, we’ve raised over $6 billion from over 350 RIAs, and we qualify and curate our list to only include RIAs that allocate to outside managers. Each week on our Dakota Live! Call, we explore a major metro area, and the key pools of capital that can be found there. In an effort to help narrow down the sheer size of the RIA market, we’ve put together a list of some of the top RIAs in Pittsburgh, the city we highlighted on a recent call. In this article, we’ll break down six of the leading RIAs in Pittsburgh. However, this is by no means a “best of” list, as there are so many high quality RIAs in Pittsburgh and around the country. We just wanted to give you a place to start. By the end of this article, you’ll be ready to start making calls and setting meetings with RIAs in Pittsburgh. Greycourt ($5B AUM) HBKS Wealth Advisors ($3.4B AUM). Fort Pitt Capital Group ($4.7B AUM) JFS Wealth Advisors ($2.2B AUM) Xpyria Investment Advisors ($800M AUM) Rootstock Wealth Advisors ($361M AUM) What to do next Now that you have an idea of the RIA market in Pittsburgh, you’re ready to put it into practice and start setting meetings.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*