# The Benefits of Dakota Marketplace for Private Equity Firms

## Article Information
- **Published:** 10/31/22
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/benefits-of-marketplace-for-private-equity-firms

## Content

If you’re an investment salesperson, you already know that without a meeting, nothing is possible. But to get that meeting, several things need to happen, including: Knowing and understanding your target market Knowing who to call on Knowing what a particular firm invests in already, as well as how much they’re investing Just getting to this point can be an extremely time-consuming, tedious, and expensive process. Most salespeople waste hours of time researching who to call on, which is not a productive use of their time. We know, because at Dakota, we’ve been fundraising ourselves since 2006, and have raised over $35 billion in that time. We’ve taken that experience and used it to create Dakota Marketplace, the leading fundraising platform for traditional and alternative investment firms. Marketplace contains over 10,000 accounts and 34,000 contacts, all vetted and reviewed by our investment sales and in-house data teams. What does that mean for you? It means that you can save time, money, and energy researching who to call on, and find exactly what you need in Dakota Marketplace with just a few clicks. In this article, we’re going to outline the benefits of Dakota Marketplace for private equity firms. By the end of the article, you’ll have a better understanding of exactly what benefits Marketplace provides, and whether or not it’s a fit for your firm. 1. Save time planning roadshows, travel, and city scheduling If you’re traveling or planning out a roadshow, it’s easy to get overwhelmed with planning, travel times and details, and other key information for your meetings and events. Dakota Marketplace has a Map It feature that helps maximize your day by helping you identify additional firms in a certain city to book meetings with, which can inform where you’re going to stay, and outlining how far you’re going to travel between meetings. Map It helps you find the best route for your day, makes sure you’ve got the address right for each place ahead of time, and more. 2. Identify and understand who invests in Private Equity, and for how much A key element of Dakota Marketplace is our investment stats. These stats are always clean, up-to-date numbers that help you do your due diligence on a firm before you meet with them. The investment statistics included in Dakota Marketplace make this research incredibly quick and simple as these stats are right at your fingertips. You can determine how you’re going to target accounts based on where they’ve allocated previously, see their underlying investments, and then decide if you’re ready to reach out for a meeting. 3. Set more meetings with qualified buyers Marketplace takes all the guesswork out of building a pipeline of accounts and contacts to call on. Instead of sifting through hundreds of thousands of potentially outdated contacts, Marketplace includes a curated list of over 10,000 accounts and over 34,000 contacts. Our team calls on these accounts themselves, and verifies them daily, meaning you save time and energy building out lists of contacts so you can get down to what matters most – setting more meetings with qualified buyers who invest in your strategy. 4. Prepare for meetings with ease with competitor insights Dakota Marketplace makes it incredibly easy to know what your competitors are saying in presentations through our Manager Presentation decks feature, as well as what fees are being paid and to whom through the Fee Studies feature. Save an enormous amount of time researching before meetings with the two easily accessible features right within Marketplace. 5. Be the first to know when a new private equity search or RFP is posted Find out as soon as a new search or RFP is listed with Dakota Searches. By filling out a simple contact form, you’ll be subscribed to be the first to know when a search is posted within your asset class so you never miss an opportunity. If you’re an investment salesperson, you already know that without a meeting, nothing is possible. But to get that meeting, several things need to happen, including: Knowing and understanding your target market Knowing who to call on Knowing what a particular firm invests in already, as well as how much they’re investing Just getting to this point can be an extremely time-consuming, tedious, and expensive process. Most salespeople waste hours of time researching who to call on, which is not a productive use of their time. We know, because at Dakota, we’ve been fundraising ourselves since 2006, and have raised over $35 billion in that time. We’ve taken that experience and used it to create Dakota Marketplace, the leading fundraising platform for traditional and alternative investment firms. Marketplace contains over 10,000 accounts and 34,000 contacts, all vetted and reviewed by our investment sales and in-house data teams. What does that mean for you? It means that you can save time, money, and energy researching who to call on, and find exactly what you need in Dakota Marketplace with just a few clicks. In this article, we’re going to outline the benefits of Dakota Marketplace for private equity firms. By the end of the article, you’ll have a better understanding of exactly what benefits Marketplace provides, and whether or not it’s a fit for your firm. 1. Save time planning roadshows, travel, and city scheduling If you’re traveling or planning out a roadshow, it’s easy to get overwhelmed with planning, travel times and details, and other key information for your meetings and events. Dakota Marketplace has a Map It feature that helps maximize your day by helping you identify additional firms in a certain city to book meetings with, which can inform where you’re going to stay, and outlining how far you’re going to travel between meetings. Map It helps you find the best route for your day, makes sure you’ve got the address right for each place ahead of time, and more. 2. Identify and understand who invests in Private Equity, and for how much A key element of Dakota Marketplace is our investment stats. These stats are always clean, up-to-date numbers that help you do your due diligence on a firm before you meet with them. The investment statistics included in Dakota Marketplace make this research incredibly quick and simple as these stats are right at your fingertips. You can determine how you’re going to target accounts based on where they’ve allocated previously, see their underlying investments, and then decide if you’re ready to reach out for a meeting. 3. Set more meetings with qualified buyers Marketplace takes all the guesswork out of building a pipeline of accounts and contacts to call on. Instead of sifting through hundreds of thousands of potentially outdated contacts, Marketplace includes a curated list of over 10,000 accounts and over 34,000 contacts. Our team calls on these accounts themselves, and verifies them daily, meaning you save time and energy building out lists of contacts so you can get down to what matters most – setting more meetings with qualified buyers who invest in your strategy. 4. Prepare for meetings with ease with competitor insights Dakota Marketplace makes it incredibly easy to know what your competitors are saying in presentations through our Manager Presentation decks feature, as well as what fees are being paid and to whom through the Fee Studies feature. Save an enormous amount of time researching before meetings with the two easily accessible features right within Marketplace. 5. Be the first to know when a new private equity search or RFP is posted Find out as soon as a new search or RFP is listed with Dakota Searches. By filling out a simple contact form, you’ll be subscribed to be the first to know when a search is posted within your asset class so you never miss an opportunity.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*