# New Fund Launches for the Second Half of January

## Article Information
- **Published:** 2/2/24
- **Author:** Koncheng Moua
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/new-fund-launches-for-the-second-half-of-january

## Content

In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! Coda Capital Launches Credit Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 12, 2024, Coda Capital Advisors, a private credit firm based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and led by Brendan Fay, launched Coda Capital Credit Fund I. Coda Capital Advisors focuses on financing opportunities for middle market cannabis-related businesses. Enterprise Community Partners Launches Fund XLIII According to the SEC Form D filing from January 24, 2024. Enterprise Community Partners, a real estate firm based in Columbia, Maryland and led by Shaun Donovan, launched Enterprise Housing Partners Fund XLIII Enterprise Community Asset Management is part of the Enterprise Community Partners non-profit organization that focuses on affordable housing and community development. Leonis Capital Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024. Leonis Capital, a venture capital firm based in San Francisco, California and led by Jay Zhao, launched Leonis Capital Fund II. Leonis Capital focuses on investing in early-stage AI companies. Previous investments include Anaplan, The Third Place, and Motiv. Cuadrilla Capital Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing, Cuadrilla Capital, a venture capital firm based in Southern California and led by Vikram Abraham, Michael Richards, and Jonah Sulak, launched Cuadrilla Capital Fund II on January 10, 2024. Leonis Capital focuses on enterprise SaaS investments. Previous investments include Agilence, Chartbeat, Infodesk, Lineup, Tubular, and WideNarrow. New Era Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, New Era Capital Partners, an early-growth venture fund based in Tel-Aviv and led by Gideon Argov and Ran Simha, launched New Era Capital Partners III, and early stage venture fund. New Era Capital typically invests $1M-$10M in Seed and Series B. Streamlined Ventures Launches Fund V According to the SEC Form D filing, Streamlined Ventures, a venture capital fund based in Palo Alto, California and led by Ullas Naik, launched Streamlined Ventures Fund V. Streamlined Ventures invests in business or consumer focused software companies leveraging AI, data science, APIs, blockchain, software automation, and metaverse/gaming. CW Industrial Launches Fund V According to the SEC Form D filing from January 22, 2024. CW Industrial, a private equity firm formerly known as CapitalWorks based in Cleveland, Ohio and led by Rob McCreary, launched CWI Fund V. CW Industrial Partners invests in lower middle market North American-based industrial businesses that manufacture or service engineered products, components or equipment. Eastward Capital Launches Fund X According to the SEC Form D filing from January 22, 2024., Eastward Capital Partners, a private credit firm based in West Newton, Massachusetts and led by Dennis Cameron, launched Eastward Capital Partners X, a venture debt fund Eastward Capital Partners provides venture debt and equity financing solutions to technology companies backed by venture capital firms. Atlanta Seed Company Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024, Atlanta Seed Company, a venture capital firm based in Atlanta, Georgia and led by Jamie Hamilton and Connor Davidson, launched Atlanta Seed Fund II, a venture capital fund. Atlanta Seed Company purchases interests in Seed and Series A technology companies across the United States, primarily located in secondary markets. VentureSouth Launches Angel Fund VI According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024, VentureSouth launched their VentureSouth Angel Fund VI, a venture capital fund. NOMO Ventures Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing from January 16, 2024. NOMO Ventures launched NOMO Ventures III, a venture capital fund. Meritage Group Launches Credit Opportunities Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024., Meritage Group launched their Meritage Credit Opportunities Fund I, an opportunistic credit fund Acacia Capital Launches Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024, PGIM launched their PGIM Energy Partners Management Fund II, a real estate fund. Readers should seek further information for clarity. WindSail Launches Climate Capital Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024, WindSail Capital Group launched their WindSail Climate Capital Fund II, an energy fund. Readers should seek further information for clarity. For more information on these new strategies, start a free trial of Dakota Marketplace here! In the fast-paced world of asset management, staying abreast of industry trends and competitor activities is crucial. Recognizing this need, we’ve distilled the latest information from Form D filings into a concise list of new fund launches. Please note: Form D filings are a probable indication of a new fund launch, but not definitive. For thorough understanding, further research is recommended. Our focused approach ensures that you gain valuable insights for competitive analysis and trend spotting, without the clutter of irrelevant and stale data. This list serves as a tool for keeping your finger on the pulse of the market, helping you make informed decisions and strategize effectively. Learn more information about any of these strategies in Dakota Marketplace! Coda Capital Launches Credit Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 12, 2024, Coda Capital Advisors, a private credit firm based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and led by Brendan Fay, launched Coda Capital Credit Fund I. Coda Capital Advisors focuses on financing opportunities for middle market cannabis-related businesses. Enterprise Community Partners Launches Fund XLIII According to the SEC Form D filing from January 24, 2024. Enterprise Community Partners, a real estate firm based in Columbia, Maryland and led by Shaun Donovan, launched Enterprise Housing Partners Fund XLIII Enterprise Community Asset Management is part of the Enterprise Community Partners non-profit organization that focuses on affordable housing and community development. Leonis Capital Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024. Leonis Capital, a venture capital firm based in San Francisco, California and led by Jay Zhao, launched Leonis Capital Fund II. Leonis Capital focuses on investing in early-stage AI companies. Previous investments include Anaplan, The Third Place, and Motiv. Cuadrilla Capital Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing, Cuadrilla Capital, a venture capital firm based in Southern California and led by Vikram Abraham, Michael Richards, and Jonah Sulak, launched Cuadrilla Capital Fund II on January 10, 2024. Leonis Capital focuses on enterprise SaaS investments. Previous investments include Agilence, Chartbeat, Infodesk, Lineup, Tubular, and WideNarrow. New Era Capital Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing, New Era Capital Partners, an early-growth venture fund based in Tel-Aviv and led by Gideon Argov and Ran Simha, launched New Era Capital Partners III, and early stage venture fund. New Era Capital typically invests $1M-$10M in Seed and Series B. Streamlined Ventures Launches Fund V According to the SEC Form D filing, Streamlined Ventures, a venture capital fund based in Palo Alto, California and led by Ullas Naik, launched Streamlined Ventures Fund V. Streamlined Ventures invests in business or consumer focused software companies leveraging AI, data science, APIs, blockchain, software automation, and metaverse/gaming. CW Industrial Launches Fund V According to the SEC Form D filing from January 22, 2024. CW Industrial, a private equity firm formerly known as CapitalWorks based in Cleveland, Ohio and led by Rob McCreary, launched CWI Fund V. CW Industrial Partners invests in lower middle market North American-based industrial businesses that manufacture or service engineered products, components or equipment. Eastward Capital Launches Fund X According to the SEC Form D filing from January 22, 2024., Eastward Capital Partners, a private credit firm based in West Newton, Massachusetts and led by Dennis Cameron, launched Eastward Capital Partners X, a venture debt fund Eastward Capital Partners provides venture debt and equity financing solutions to technology companies backed by venture capital firms. Atlanta Seed Company Launches Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024, Atlanta Seed Company, a venture capital firm based in Atlanta, Georgia and led by Jamie Hamilton and Connor Davidson, launched Atlanta Seed Fund II, a venture capital fund. Atlanta Seed Company purchases interests in Seed and Series A technology companies across the United States, primarily located in secondary markets. VentureSouth Launches Angel Fund VI According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024, VentureSouth launched their VentureSouth Angel Fund VI, a venture capital fund. NOMO Ventures Launches Fund III According to the SEC Form D filing from January 16, 2024. NOMO Ventures launched NOMO Ventures III, a venture capital fund. Meritage Group Launches Credit Opportunities Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024., Meritage Group launched their Meritage Credit Opportunities Fund I, an opportunistic credit fund Acacia Capital Launches Fund I According to the SEC Form D filing from January 18, 2024, PGIM launched their PGIM Energy Partners Management Fund II, a real estate fund. Readers should seek further information for clarity. WindSail Launches Climate Capital Fund II According to the SEC Form D filing from January 17, 2024, WindSail Capital Group launched their WindSail Climate Capital Fund II, an energy fund. Readers should seek further information for clarity. For more information on these new strategies, start a free trial of Dakota Marketplace here!

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*