# The Top 5 Resources for Investment Sales Professionals

## Article Information
- **Published:** 2/19/21
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/best-resources-investment-sales

## Content

These days, we’re all trying to maximize our time and become the best, most efficient versions of ourselves. With to-do lists that only seem to get longer, and the days blurring together, it’s not always easy (or even possible) to give up an hour or more of your time to read, listen, and watch a variety of content to keep up on industry trends and news. So, we did it for you. We’re giving you an overview of five of the best resources for investment salespeople, including an overview of each, the platform it covers, and how frequently it's updated. Staying up-to-date on what’s going on in the industry is key, and by the end of this article you’ll be able to decide for yourself which resources are truly worth your time. 1. Asset TV If you’re prone to binge-watching, this is probably the platform for you. Asset TV is a video platform designed for investment managers. What is it? Asset TV is a video research and learning platform for investment professionals. The platform covers everything from industry news and insights to providing masterclasses in specific areas of interest. Who is it for? Asset TV provides content for investment professionals including: advisors, pension funds, consultants, family offices and wealth managers. What is the format? As the name implies, Asset TV is primarily a video streaming platform, containing playlists and channels customizable to your needs and asset class. How often is it updated? There are new videos added to the platform daily. Specialization: None, this is a general platform covering all asset types. 2. CityWire CityWire is an online platform that provides a variety of news resources to investment sales professionals all over the world. They also host events, have a print magazine, and a Service Research service that provides key assets to asset managers. What is it? CityWire is a multimedia company that provides key insights and updates to asset managers in a variety of ways, both digital and print. Who is it for? CityWire provides informational content to asset managers of all kinds, all over the world. There are dedicated international branches, as well as industry-specific magazines including CityWire Selector, CityWire Private Wealth, and CityWire Wealth Manager. What is the format? There are both print magazines and digital resources available through CityWire, as well as regularly held speaking events that asset managers can attend. How often is it updated? The CityWire website is updated daily, while the magazine is printed bi-weekly. Specialization: None, CityWire caters to all asset types. 3. Barron's Barron’s is a daily publication that provides insight on the markets, data, trends, and news for investment professionals. Their “Best of Advisors” lists have become a trusted resource for many throughout the industry. What is it? Barron’s provides investment insights through a variety of platforms, including digital, print, and audio. Who is it for? Barron’s is a resource for asset managers and investment professionals looking to gain a better understanding of the industry and trends. What is the format? The primary format is digital, though there are also print magazines and podcast options. How often is it updated? The website is updated daily, and the “best of” lists are done years. Specialization: None, Barron’s caters to all asset types. 4. J.P. Morgan's Asset Management Podcast J.P Morgan brings their 150 years of experience to life with their asset management podcast. Episode types vary, and cover everything from investing best practices to alternatives and more. What is it? A podcast designed to provide insights on industry trends as they happen. The episodes can be filtered by type, making them applicable to a wide audience. Who is it for? Asset managers who are looking to listen to their trends rather than read them. The episodes can be filtered down by: Alternatives, Equities, Fixed Income, and General Economy. What is the format? Audio. How often is it updated? While there is no set schedule indicated on the site, there are monthly podcast episodes. Specialization: The J.P. Morgan Asset Management Podcast focuses on Alternatives, Equities, and Fixed Income. 5. Preqin Insights Blog Preqin is a data and analytics provider specializing in Alternatives. Their blog provides data, updates, and analytics relation to all things under the Alternative umbrella. What is it? A blog dedicated to Alternative investments. Who is it for? Anyone looking for written content specific to Alternative investments. What is the format? Written. How often is it updated? Weekly. Specialization: Preqin is specific to Alternative investment strategies. Choosing the best resource for you We’ve outlined five of the best industry resources and who they might be a good fit for based on your needs. But if you’re still not sure, and like many of us, unwilling to waste your valuable time finding out, we don’t blame you! Which is why we've outlined some of the best, so you don't have to. These days, we’re all trying to maximize our time and become the best, most efficient versions of ourselves. With to-do lists that only seem to get longer, and the days blurring together, it’s not always easy (or even possible) to give up an hour or more of your time to read, listen, and watch a variety of content to keep up on industry trends and news. So, we did it for you. We’re giving you an overview of five of the best resources for investment salespeople, including an overview of each, the platform it covers, and how frequently it's updated. Staying up-to-date on what’s going on in the industry is key, and by the end of this article you’ll be able to decide for yourself which resources are truly worth your time. 1. Asset TV If you’re prone to binge-watching, this is probably the platform for you. Asset TV is a video platform designed for investment managers. What is it? Asset TV is a video research and learning platform for investment professionals. The platform covers everything from industry news and insights to providing masterclasses in specific areas of interest. Who is it for? Asset TV provides content for investment professionals including: advisors, pension funds, consultants, family offices and wealth managers. What is the format? As the name implies, Asset TV is primarily a video streaming platform, containing playlists and channels customizable to your needs and asset class. How often is it updated? There are new videos added to the platform daily. Specialization: None, this is a general platform covering all asset types. 2. CityWire CityWire is an online platform that provides a variety of news resources to investment sales professionals all over the world. They also host events, have a print magazine, and a Service Research service that provides key assets to asset managers. What is it? CityWire is a multimedia company that provides key insights and updates to asset managers in a variety of ways, both digital and print. Who is it for? CityWire provides informational content to asset managers of all kinds, all over the world. There are dedicated international branches, as well as industry-specific magazines including CityWire Selector, CityWire Private Wealth, and CityWire Wealth Manager. What is the format? There are both print magazines and digital resources available through CityWire, as well as regularly held speaking events that asset managers can attend. How often is it updated? The CityWire website is updated daily, while the magazine is printed bi-weekly. Specialization: None, CityWire caters to all asset types. 3. Barron's Barron’s is a daily publication that provides insight on the markets, data, trends, and news for investment professionals. Their “Best of Advisors” lists have become a trusted resource for many throughout the industry. What is it? Barron’s provides investment insights through a variety of platforms, including digital, print, and audio. Who is it for? Barron’s is a resource for asset managers and investment professionals looking to gain a better understanding of the industry and trends. What is the format? The primary format is digital, though there are also print magazines and podcast options. How often is it updated? The website is updated daily, and the “best of” lists are done years. Specialization: None, Barron’s caters to all asset types. 4. J.P. Morgan's Asset Management Podcast J.P Morgan brings their 150 years of experience to life with their asset management podcast. Episode types vary, and cover everything from investing best practices to alternatives and more. What is it? A podcast designed to provide insights on industry trends as they happen. The episodes can be filtered by type, making them applicable to a wide audience. Who is it for? Asset managers who are looking to listen to their trends rather than read them. The episodes can be filtered down by: Alternatives, Equities, Fixed Income, and General Economy. What is the format? Audio. How often is it updated? While there is no set schedule indicated on the site, there are monthly podcast episodes. Specialization: The J.P. Morgan Asset Management Podcast focuses on Alternatives, Equities, and Fixed Income. 5. Preqin Insights Blog Preqin is a data and analytics provider specializing in Alternatives. Their blog provides data, updates, and analytics relation to all things under the Alternative umbrella. What is it? A blog dedicated to Alternative investments. Who is it for? Anyone looking for written content specific to Alternative investments. What is the format? Written. How often is it updated? Weekly. Specialization: Preqin is specific to Alternative investment strategies. Choosing the best resource for you We’ve outlined five of the best industry resources and who they might be a good fit for based on your needs. But if you’re still not sure, and like many of us, unwilling to waste your valuable time finding out, we don’t blame you! Which is why we've outlined some of the best, so you don't have to.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*