# The Top 13F Filing Databases: Whalewisdom vs. Opportunity Hunter vs. SEC-API

## Article Information
- **Published:** 9/24/21
- **Author:** Gui Costin
- **Original URL:** https://www.dakota.com/resources/blog/whalewisdom-opportunity-hunter-sec-api-which-is-right-for-you

## Content

If you sell in the RIA channel, you already know that there are no shortage of firms to call on within the United States. However, you probably also know how difficult it is to determine which are the right fit for your firm and your strategy. You probably feel like you’re shooting in the dark when you’re doing outreach. We know, we’ve been there too. At Dakota, we’ve been fundraising for our partners since 2006, and have raised over $40 billion in that time. We’re no strangers to the RIA channel and the challenges that lie within it. What’s more, we know that knowing who to call on can make or break your outreach strategy. However, in that time, we’ve also come to learn that when it comes to RIAs, knowing where they’re investing before you call on them can save your sales team a lot of time. Which is why, in this article, we’re going to outline three of the primary resources for information on 13F filings, which allow your team to know where RIAs are investing. We’re going to include our own new, 13F Filing platform at the end of this list as well, but don’t worry, we’re not here to convince you that our product is the only solution for you. Instead, our goal is to give you an overview of all four platforms, so that you can evaluate for yourself which is the best fit for your team. These platforms include: Whalewisdom Broadridge Opportunity Hunter SEC-API Dakota Marketplace 13F filings By the end of the article, you’ll have a better idea which platform is right for your firm, so that you can start making more meaningful, targeted outreach to RIAs. Whalewisdom Overview Whalewisdom was founded on the belief that there is value in learning from the “whales” of the stock market. They believe that everyone has something to learn from their peers, and the big firms and players within the industry. To that end, Whalewisdom has several options for users to choose from, including a product dedicated to 13F filings. In addition to this, though, they have the Whalescore, which allows users to quickly identify funds with the best chance of outperforming the market in the future, and the Whaleindex, which takes the best funds and creates a portfolio of their most commonly held stocks. However, for the purposes of this article, we’re going to focus on the 13F Backtester, which allows users to see how cloning a fund or group of fund’s top holdings would have performed in the past, as well as the Excel 13F Holdings Extension. How is the data obtained and managed? WhaleWisdom.com SEC filing data collection is done in-house and is entirely automated with little to no human intervention. Because of this, there is a margin for error, and Whalewisdom does advise that users take and use the information at their own risk. How much does it cost? Whalewisdom starts at a free tier, which allows you to access 13F filings from the past two years, as well as receive email alerts, backtesting, and reporting tools. From there, they move into paid options, which start at $90/three months, or $300/year. Additional features As mentioned above, Whalewisdom offers a variety of additional tools, including Whalescore, Whaleindex, the 13F Excel Extension, as well as dashboards. Opportunity Hunter Overview Broadridge is a global Fintech leader that provides communications, technology, data and analytics. Their product, Opportunity Hunter, consolidates, scores, and analyzes data from multiple sources, presenting these insights in a simple user interface. Opportunity Hunter identifies opportunities by comparing your product characteristics against other products held by a prospect. How is the data obtained and managed? Opportunity Hunter compiles 200 data points from Morningstar and compiles them all in one place. How much does it cost? Pricing information is not available on the Broadridge site, but can be obtained through a demo. Additional features Opportunity Hunter is specific to helping investment sales teams identify which firms are a fit for their strategy, and the product is hyper-focused on this functionality. SEC-API Overview SEC Filings API is a platform that makes SEC filings accessible and analyzable to everyone. SEC API provides four types of APIs: query, full-text search, real-time stream and a HTML/PDF render API. This platform has over 18 million filings available, from 1993 to now. Additionally, SEC-API has built proprietary algorithms to discover and index new filings in less than 200 milliseconds after publication on SEC.gov. How is the data obtained and managed? SEC-API pulls filing data directly from SEC.gov. How much does it cost? SEC-API starts at a free tier, allowing users 100 API calls free of charge. Then, the pricing starts at $49/month for the Research platform, or $199/month for Resell platform. Additional features SEC-API provides a lot of features for the benefit of investment sales teams, including access to all 150 SEC filing types, indexed in real-time, with every filing mapped to its company ticker. Additionally, you have the option to try the product in SEC-API’s own sandbox, so you have the opportunity to try the platform before making a commitment. Dakota Marketplace 13F Filings Overview The Dakota 13F Filings is an upcoming Dakota product that is run through SEC-API, meaning that the data comes through an API to Dakota. The Dakota data team ensures the accuracy of the files received, and provides them to our clients. How is the data obtained and managed? Dakota receives the data via SEC-API, directly from SEC.gov. How much does it cost? Dakota 13F Filings is part of Dakota Marketplace, which is $13,500 per user per year. Request a free trial from our team to see if it's a fit for your firm. Additional features The Dakota 13F Filings platform coincides with a full Marketplace membership, including, among other features, Dakota Live! Calls, Dakota Searches, and Investment Committee Meeting Notes, so you’re always up-to-date on industry changes and news. Which platform is right for your firm? Now that we’ve covered four platforms dedicated to helping your firm access 13F and other filings, you might be wondering which one is right for you. While this comes down to the intentions and needs of your sales team and firm, we do think we can provide some insight on which might be the best fit in certain cases. If you… Want deep insights with a visual comparison of how your firm’s strategy compares to current RIA investments, Whalewisdom or Opportunity Hunter might be the best choices for you. If you want direct access to filings as they are being done, access to filings from 1993 and beyond, then SEC-API would be a good fit for you. If you are a current Dakota Marketplace member, the Dakota 13F Filings platform would be a great addition to your Dakota membership. If you sell in the RIA channel, you already know that there are no shortage of firms to call on within the United States. However, you probably also know how difficult it is to determine which are the right fit for your firm and your strategy. You probably feel like you’re shooting in the dark when you’re doing outreach. We know, we’ve been there too. At Dakota, we’ve been fundraising for our partners since 2006, and have raised over $40 billion in that time. We’re no strangers to the RIA channel and the challenges that lie within it. What’s more, we know that knowing who to call on can make or break your outreach strategy. However, in that time, we’ve also come to learn that when it comes to RIAs, knowing where they’re investing before you call on them can save your sales team a lot of time. Which is why, in this article, we’re going to outline three of the primary resources for information on 13F filings, which allow your team to know where RIAs are investing. We’re going to include our own new, 13F Filing platform at the end of this list as well, but don’t worry, we’re not here to convince you that our product is the only solution for you. Instead, our goal is to give you an overview of all four platforms, so that you can evaluate for yourself which is the best fit for your team. These platforms include: Whalewisdom Broadridge Opportunity Hunter SEC-API Dakota Marketplace 13F filings By the end of the article, you’ll have a better idea which platform is right for your firm, so that you can start making more meaningful, targeted outreach to RIAs. Whalewisdom Overview Whalewisdom was founded on the belief that there is value in learning from the “whales” of the stock market. They believe that everyone has something to learn from their peers, and the big firms and players within the industry. To that end, Whalewisdom has several options for users to choose from, including a product dedicated to 13F filings. In addition to this, though, they have the Whalescore, which allows users to quickly identify funds with the best chance of outperforming the market in the future, and the Whaleindex, which takes the best funds and creates a portfolio of their most commonly held stocks. However, for the purposes of this article, we’re going to focus on the 13F Backtester, which allows users to see how cloning a fund or group of fund’s top holdings would have performed in the past, as well as the Excel 13F Holdings Extension. How is the data obtained and managed? WhaleWisdom.com SEC filing data collection is done in-house and is entirely automated with little to no human intervention. Because of this, there is a margin for error, and Whalewisdom does advise that users take and use the information at their own risk. How much does it cost? Whalewisdom starts at a free tier, which allows you to access 13F filings from the past two years, as well as receive email alerts, backtesting, and reporting tools. From there, they move into paid options, which start at $90/three months, or $300/year. Additional features As mentioned above, Whalewisdom offers a variety of additional tools, including Whalescore, Whaleindex, the 13F Excel Extension, as well as dashboards. Opportunity Hunter Overview Broadridge is a global Fintech leader that provides communications, technology, data and analytics. Their product, Opportunity Hunter, consolidates, scores, and analyzes data from multiple sources, presenting these insights in a simple user interface. Opportunity Hunter identifies opportunities by comparing your product characteristics against other products held by a prospect. How is the data obtained and managed? Opportunity Hunter compiles 200 data points from Morningstar and compiles them all in one place. How much does it cost? Pricing information is not available on the Broadridge site, but can be obtained through a demo. Additional features Opportunity Hunter is specific to helping investment sales teams identify which firms are a fit for their strategy, and the product is hyper-focused on this functionality. SEC-API Overview SEC Filings API is a platform that makes SEC filings accessible and analyzable to everyone. SEC API provides four types of APIs: query, full-text search, real-time stream and a HTML/PDF render API. This platform has over 18 million filings available, from 1993 to now. Additionally, SEC-API has built proprietary algorithms to discover and index new filings in less than 200 milliseconds after publication on SEC.gov. How is the data obtained and managed? SEC-API pulls filing data directly from SEC.gov. How much does it cost? SEC-API starts at a free tier, allowing users 100 API calls free of charge. Then, the pricing starts at $49/month for the Research platform, or $199/month for Resell platform. Additional features SEC-API provides a lot of features for the benefit of investment sales teams, including access to all 150 SEC filing types, indexed in real-time, with every filing mapped to its company ticker. Additionally, you have the option to try the product in SEC-API’s own sandbox, so you have the opportunity to try the platform before making a commitment. Dakota Marketplace 13F Filings Overview The Dakota 13F Filings is an upcoming Dakota product that is run through SEC-API, meaning that the data comes through an API to Dakota. The Dakota data team ensures the accuracy of the files received, and provides them to our clients. How is the data obtained and managed? Dakota receives the data via SEC-API, directly from SEC.gov. How much does it cost? Dakota 13F Filings is part of Dakota Marketplace, which is $13,500 per user per year. Request a free trial from our team to see if it's a fit for your firm. Additional features The Dakota 13F Filings platform coincides with a full Marketplace membership, including, among other features, Dakota Live! Calls, Dakota Searches, and Investment Committee Meeting Notes, so you’re always up-to-date on industry changes and news. Which platform is right for your firm? Now that we’ve covered four platforms dedicated to helping your firm access 13F and other filings, you might be wondering which one is right for you. While this comes down to the intentions and needs of your sales team and firm, we do think we can provide some insight on which might be the best fit in certain cases. If you… Want deep insights with a visual comparison of how your firm’s strategy compares to current RIA investments, Whalewisdom or Opportunity Hunter might be the best choices for you. If you want direct access to filings as they are being done, access to filings from 1993 and beyond, then SEC-API would be a good fit for you. If you are a current Dakota Marketplace member, the Dakota 13F Filings platform would be a great addition to your Dakota membership.

---

*This article is part of the Dakota Learning Center knowledge base.*